 

TATA
CONSULTANCY
BS aS

Building on\belief

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Backdrop= The Teomre-campus-of-the Tata Research Design
aad Development Center at Hadapsar in Pune, India
Content

About TCS

Board of Directors
Management Team
Letter from the Chairman
Letter from the CEO
Performance Highlights
The Year Gone By

Thematic Section
TRDDC: Built on a Belief in the Future

Operating Model and Front-end
Transformation: Phoenix Group

Business Model Innovation: Toyo Tire
Building on Belief: A Panel Discussion
Customer Journey Transformation: bpost

Citizen Services Transformation: Connecticut
Department of Labor

Q8A with CFO and CHRO
Business Transformation: Novolex

Building Digital India: Reserve Bank of India

03
04
05
07
09
15
16

29
30
33
34

Statutory Section

Notice

Directors’ Report

Corporate Governance Report

Management Discussion and Analysis

Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report

Consolidated Balance Sheet

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Notes forming part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Standalone Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Standalone Balance Sheet

Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss

35
47
72
98

174
183
185
187
190

192

255
266
268

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial
Statements

Statement under section 129 of the Companies
Act, 2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies

Glossary

GRI Annexures

About this Report

Stakeholder Engagement Framework
Identification of Material Topics

GRI Content Index

269
272

274

324

328

337
338
340
344

  
 
  
  
  
    
    
Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services,
consulting and business solutions organization

that has been partnering with many of the world’s
largest businesses in their transformation journeys
for over 50 years. TCS offers a consulting-led,
cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of business,
technology and engineering services and solutions.
This is delivered through its unique Location
Independent Agile™ delivery model, recognized as a
benchmark of excellence in software development.

A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational
business group, TCS has over 488,000 of the
world’s best-trained consultants in 46 countries.
The company generated consolidated revenues of
US $22.2 billion in the fiscal year ended March 31,
2021, and is listed on the BSE (formerly Bombay
Stock Exchange) and the NSE (National Stock
Exchange) in India.

TCS’ proactive stance on climate change and award-
winning work with communities across the world
have earned it a place in leading sustainability indices
such as the MSCI Global Sustainability Index and the
FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For more information,
visit Us at www.tcs.com.

 

+ 102-1, 102-5, 102-7

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

This year’s theme is TCS’ new brand

statement, Building on Belief’, which encapsulates
the active and collaborative role that TCS plays

in partnering with customers over the long term,
leveraging its contextual knowledge, investments in
research and innovation, and technology expertise
to help them grow, and achieve their purpose-led
transformation goals.

Forty years ago, the farsighted and pathbreaking
decision to set up the Tata Research, Design and
Development Center (TRDDC) in Pune, epitomizes
this theme. It was driven as much by FC Kohli’s
passion for research as JRD Tata’s belief in building
the nation’s intellectual capital through institutions
of higher education and research in different
domains.

With a mandate to pursue technology research
across a broad set of domains for the betterment

of Indian industry, TRDDC went on to make
outstanding contributions particularly in the area

of industrializing software engineering, systems
engineering, material sciences, bio-informatics and
genomics. Much of TCS’ intellectual property and its
award-winning suite of products and platforms, all
of which differentiate TCS significantly in the market
today, owe their genesis to work done by TRDDC.

Recent Annual Report Themes

 

SR rRPOsE-ORIVEN

 
Board of Directors

 

Non-Independent, Non Executive

 

N Chandrasekaran Aarthi Subramanian O P Bhatt Don Callahan Keki M Mistry

Chairman m | iM | Bul
eu

     

8
Rajesh Gopinathan N G Subramaniam Dr Pradeep Kumar Hanne Birgitte
CEO &MD COO Khosla Breinbjerg Sorensen

nom M1

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Board of Directors | 4

ed
CC)
yoy 4A%

Board Committees Chairman Member

Audit Committee
H Nomination and Remuneration Committee
lf Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
© Executive Committee
™ Risk Management Committee”

* Ramakrishnan V (Chief Financial Officer), is also a member of the Committee
 

Management Team

 

Rajesh Gopinathan

Milind Lakkad
Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer

   

   

DP

NG Subramaniam

   

&»

 

V Ramakrishnan

Samir Seksaria
Chief Human
and Managing Director and Executive Director

 

Head - Business Finance

Resources Officer and CFO Designate

 
  

        

Rajashree K Ananth Krishnan Madhav Anchan Rajendra Moholkar
Chief Marketing Officer Chief Technology General Counsel Legal
Officer

Company Secretary
and Corporate Affairs

Management Team | 5
 

Surya Kant
Chairman - TCS North
America

 

Amit Bajaj
North America

 

  

an sf

Krishnan Ramanujam_— K Krithivasan
Business and Banking, Financial
Technology Services Services and Insurance

Suresh Muthuswami Susheel Vasudevan
BFSI Platforms Manufacturing and
Utilities

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Shankar Narayanan
Retail, Travel and
Consumer Products

 

Debashis Ghosh
Life Sciences, Healthcare

and Public Services

  
   

Kamal Bhadada
Communication, Media
and Information Services

 
 

Dear Stakeholder,

Even as | write this, India and many other parts of the world are in the grip of
second or even third waves of the pandemic, much fiercer than anything we

saw last year. It is a health crisis of the kind we have not seen in generations.

My heart goes out to everyone out there who has suffered the loss of loved
ones. | am confident we will eventually get it under control, but until then, | urge
you to stay safe, follow covid discipline, get vaccinated if you are eligible and keep
your spirits up.

On the business front, your company weathered the pandemic very well. It
adapted quickly and embraced a new operating model that prioritized the health
and wellbeing of its employees, while enabling it to continue supporting its
customers not just in their mission-critical operations but also in their growth
and transformation journeys. Its Vision 25x25 and pioneering work around talent
clouds have reinforced its credentials as a thought leader on the future of work,
and a trend setter in the industry.

TCS’ agility, resilience and responsiveness during the crisis earned it tremendous
goodwill from customers and enhanced its standing in the market. After the
initial impact from lockdown-related disruptions, it swiftly returned to a sharp
growth trajectory over the next nine months, and exited the year on a very
strong note, with an expanded market share, industry-leading profitability and an
all-time high order book.

Letter From The Chairman | 7
Technological change is far more perceptible when
it comes to consumer technology, and less so in
the enterprise world. Enterprise adoption of new
technologies tends to be very measured, and it

is only much later, with the benefit of hindsight,
that the scale of change and the key inflection
points become more evident. To my mind, the year
gone by saw an important inflection point that has
huge ramifications on enterprise consumption of
technology in the coming years, and on demand for
your company’s services.

The pressing need for operational resilience and

for enhancing customer experiences in digital
channels accelerated enterprise decision-making,
committing to future technology investments around
the all-encompassing hyperscaler cloud stacks.

This represents an important inflection point in

the enterprise embrace of the cloud, and will drive
significant spending on migrating workloads to public
clouds in the coming years.

Moving workloads to the cloud ts just the start

of their digital transformation journeys. The rich
native capabilities of these stacks, particularly in the
areas of analytics, machine learning and artificial
intelligence open up a vast array of possibilities

for enterprises to pursue new business models,
address new customer segments, and provide highly
personalized, differentiated experiences across the
entire customer journey.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Your company is very well positioned to benefit

from this multi-year technology upgradation cycle,
and help customers translate their transformative
visions into reality. To better articulate its mission and
its aspirations, your company adopted a new brand
statement this year, “Building on Belief’. | think it
describes what TCS does very accurately, and also
reflects the ethos of the Tata Group and its evolution
over the last century and a half.

Your company has been guided by a set of strong
beliefs, right from the time it was founded. Belief in
our core values, belief in putting the customer above
all, belief in investing in people and empowering
them, belief in constantly trying out new ideas

and models, and belief in doing right by all the
stakeholder communities we work with. This is why
the new brand statement resonates so well, and feels
so right.

Looking ahead, your company sees immense
opportunities for growth, riding the new technology
cycle that has kicked off, powered by the belief

that its differentiated capabilities and collaborative,
solution-centric approach makes it the preferred
transformation partner of its customers. It is building
on that belief, and investing in sharpening the
capabilities needed to expand its footprint in this
large opportunity.

 

Your company has been guided by
a set of strong beliefs, right from

fa acomelleat-Mion MOU aCel xem 5-1-1
our core values, belief in putting
the customer above all, belief in
investing in people and empowering

them, belief in constantly trying out
new ideas and models, and belief in
doing right by all the stakeholder
communities we work with.

On behalf of the Board of Directors of Tata
Consultancy Services, | want to thank you for your
continued trust, confidence, and support.

Warm regards,

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman

Letter From The Chairman | 8
 

Dear Stakeholder,

It has been a difficult year for everybody. Despite the ferocity with which the
second and third waves of the pandemic are now hitting us, we are in a far better
place as we exit FY 2021 than we were at the start. With a plethora of vaccines
and new therapies that modern science and the pharmaceutical industry have
delivered at unmatched speed, humanity is not as helpless as when the pandemic
first struck. We are a resilient and adaptable species. With discipline, focus and
fortitude, we shall overcome.

Our business performance in the year gone by is also a reflection of that innate
resilience and adaptability. In the early months of the pandemic, when the
worldwide lockdown disrupted economic activity across virtually all sectors, your
company responded with speed and agility, embracing a new operating model,
Secure Borderless Workspaces (SBWS™). Working remotely, our teams helped
customers maintain business continuity during peak disruption, and thereafter,
to accelerate their growth and transformation (G&T). The dedication shown

by TCSers, our agility and our innovation, won us much appreciation from our
customers, and incremental business.

Despite a sharp fall in revenues in the first quarter, progressively strengthening
demand for our services helped us stage a swift recovery during the rest of the
year, helping clock full year revenues of 8164,177 crore in FY 2021, growing
4.6% over the prior year in reported terms, and degrowing by 0.8% in constant
currency terms.

The uneven impact of the pandemic on the different sectors shows up clearly in
our segmental reporting. Three of our six industry verticals showed growth (in
constant currency) over the prior year. As is to be expected in a pandemic year,

 

+102-14

Letter From The CEO | 9
when the world looked to the pharma majors to

save humanity from the scourge of disease, our Life
Sciences and Healthcare business grew 17.1%. The
other two verticals were Banking, Financial Services
and Insurance which grew 2.4%}, and Technology and
Services which grew 0.2%.

Our operating margin continued to be industry-
leading at 25.9%*, an expansion of 1.3%* over the
prior year. Net profit was 333,388 crore*, a net
margin of 20.3%*. Our cash conversion continues
to be very strong, with a cash conversion ratio

of 116.2%* and free cash flow of 35,663 crore,
growing 21.8% over the prior year.

The Board has recommended a final dividend of 315
for the year, bringing the total dividend for the year
to %38 per share. In keeping with our shareholder
friendly capital allocation policy, your company has
paid out 33,873 crore in dividends and a buyback in
FY 2021, amounting to 95% of the free cash flow.

Strong Business Momentum

Demand was driven by the confluence of two big
trends. First, with consumers preferring contactless,
digital transactions, enterprises were forced to rely
more on their digital channels, and in some cases,

 

1 Excluding Regional Markets and Others

“Excluding an exceptional item provided towards a contested legal
claim

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

switch entirely to online-only modes, triggering a lot of
investment in not just front-end transformations and
personalization of the customer experience, but also at
the back end, to simplify and digitize processes, reduce
turnaround times for customer service requests and
enhance the end-to-end customer journey.

Second, the pandemic drove home the downsides

of carrying technology debt, and the need for
greater resilience and agility within enterprises. This
resulted in several core transformation engagements
around building a lean, secure and adaptive digital
core, encompassing operations, digital workplaces,
applications, data, the underlying infrastructure and
cybersecurity.

In terms of technology choices, both these drivers
converged on the hyperscaler cloud stacks, also
known as public clouds. FY 2021 will be remembered
as the year when many enterprises took the leap and
committed to channeling their future technology
investments into one or more of these cloud stacks,
significantly accelerating what had been a measured
movement over the last few years.

This decision triggered many engagements around
cloud migration, application modernization and
data modernization. As a precursor to the core
transformation and cloud migration, many customers
are revisiting their current operations to look
for opportunities for optimization and to free up

resources to support their core transformation.
Some customers embarked on significant operating
model transformations as they sought out strategic
partners with strong capabilities and shared values.
There was also increased activity around traditional
outsourcing.

These trends resulted in a steady and strong flow
of deals of all sizes, across all our industry verticals,
throughout the year. We had two large deal wins,
with Deutsche Bank and with Prudential Financial
Inc respectively, that saw us strengthen our German
presence and establish a strong local presence in
Ireland. The order book signed every quarter was
higher than that in the prior year. We closed the year
with an all-time high quarterly TCV of $9.2 billion.
The full year order book was $31.6 billion, our
highest ever, representing a growth of 17.1% over
the prior year.

     
 
A Multi-year Technology Cycle

The enterprise embrace of the hyperscaler cloud
has ramifications that go beyond the current year,
extending to the medium and the longer term as
well. This is a decadal technology shift that goes far
beyond just the server and storage aspects of the
IT infrastructure, and represents a crystallization of
technology choices at a much broader level.

This is because all the major hyperscale providers
have been steadily building out their technology
stacks over the last few years, expanding the
offerings to include richer native choices around
databases, data warehouses, applications and
even cutting-edge tools like machine vision,

Our verticalized, customer-
centric organization structure
has helped us foster domain and
contextual knowledge within
the Industry Solution Units. Our

sustained investments in organic
talent development, in research
and innovation, and in creating
intellectual property have helped
build up solutioning expertise and
boost our innovation credentials.

 

conversational systems, Al, ML and loT. Today’s
public cloud is no longer just a very large and
inexpensive third-party data center, but a holistic,
all-encompassing technology ecosystem. Once an
enterprise enters this ecosystem, it is virtually certain
that all of its future innovation and technology
programs will stay within that ecosystem.

So we see this technology shift as the start of a
multi-year technology upgradation cycle in which
the abundance of native capabilities will constantly
expand the art of the possible, opening up newer
opportunities for technology-driven differentiation.

Of course, the technology by itself doesn’t deliver
differentiation. If anything, cloud models are
predicated on standardization and commoditization.
Differentiation takes place when enterprises

invest in bespoke solutions that harness the native
capabilities of the cloud, and are contextualized to
each customer's unique circumstances, which amplify
their unique strengths, and manage the nuances and
idiosyncrasies to reduce risks. This is exactly what

we have been doing for our customers over the last
few years, leveraging our deep contextual knowledge
of their business and technology landscapes, our
research and innovation, intellectual property and
expertise across digital technologies.

Given the ever-increasing reliance of enterprises
on technology to drive differentiation, and to
power their growth and transformation, we see our

customers’ cloud transformation journeys play out
over three horizons, spread over the next three to
five years and beyond.

The events of FY 2021 have kickstarted the
journey across the first of those horizons for many
enterprises. Migration to the cloud, by itself, is a
material transformation program that will play out
over the next two to three years, depending on the
complexity of the IT landscape. The outcome of
this first phase of transformation will be a resilient,
future-ready digital technology stack that supports
leaner, more agile operations and serves as a scalable
foundation for growth and the subsequent horizons
of transformation.

Enterprises will start realizing the full value of their
cloud investments in the subsequent two horizons.
In the second horizon, we expect to start helping
our customers leverage the rich native capabilities
of these stacks around analytics, Al and ML to build
new systems of customer engagement, new systems
of differentiation and experiment with new business
models.

As more and more enterprises get on to this journey,
the cloud will become the seamless technology fabric
that will bring together enterprises from across
industries to form collaborative ecosystems which
co-innovate around their individual products and
services. It will help launch larger, purpose-driven
offerings, each representing much more value to

Letter From The CEO | 11
their common customers than the sum of its parts.
We believe this boundaryless innovation has the
power to change industry after industry. Given our
deep domain knowledge across multiple industry
verticals, and our work on innovation at their
intersections, it presents us an opportunity to be the
transformation agents and potential orchestrators of
such ecosystems.

Building on Belief

With many of our customers embarking on multi-
year, enterprise-wide transformation journeys,

we are very well positioned to benefit from this
expanding opportunity. Most importantly, we believe
that this represents a unique opportunity to redefine
how enterprises have traditionally approached
transformations.

We believe that enterprises can build sustainable,
inclusive, and greater futures for their stakeholders
by adopting an organic, inside out transformation
model, rather than outside in, externally driven
standardized change agendas. Our own journey over
the last two decades in one of the most competitive
industries in the world highlights the strengths of
this approach. Our transformation approach values
the collective knowledge between us and the
customer, and combines it with a deep understanding
of technologies and an innovation mindset to build
their aspirations into reality.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

This differentiated approach is helping us win several
G&T engagements that represent a promising
beachhead in a market where our participation has
been quite low traditionally.

We are very proud of this early success. Our path
to getting to where we are today, systematically
investing to acquire the necessary capabilities and
customer mindshare, has been very differentiated,
very organic and very TCS. Our verticalized,
customer-centric organization structure has
helped us foster domain and contextual knowledge
within the Industry Solution Units. Our sustained
investments in organic talent development, in
research and innovation, and in creating intellectual
property have helped build up solutioning expertise
and boost our innovation credentials. Moreover, we
have created structures that help stitch together
different capabilities from across TCS to put together
holistic solutions that help our customers achieve
their business objectives.

Our focus and investments will now be on growing
further and gaining more market share in this space.
Towards this, we are investing in deepening our
transformation capabilities. While we stay open to
inorganic acquisitions, our focus and commitment to
organic talent development remains unwavering.

In addition to hiring more management graduates,
we are scaling up our highly successful Contextual

 

We also refreshed our brand last
month, and launched a new brand
statement, ‘Building on Belief, to
reflect who we are today, and to
support our, and our customers’
aspirations in the G&T space. It

celebrates the power of reinvention
and instils hope into business and
trust in the enterprise.

Masters program, that identifies individuals who have
developed deep contextual knowledge on the job
and are using that to create value for our customers.
We have launched newer learning and development
initiatives that will identify high potential candidates
and put them through experiential courses that will
help them become more effective transformation
leaders. We are strengthening our partnerships

with large technology providers as well as startups,
academia and domain specialists towards co-
innovating and collaborating to create new service
offerings.

Letter From The CEO | 12
We are entering FY 2022 with
strong growth momentum and
with much better visibility for
future growth than we did last
year, powered by a strong order

book built up throughout the
year and a robust deal pipeline.

We also refreshed our brand last month, and
launched a new brand statement, ‘Building on
Belief’, to reflect who we are today, and to support
our, and our customers’ aspirations in the G&T space.
It celebrates the power of reinvention and instils
hope into business and trust in the enterprise. Our
belief conveys our optimistic outlook and reflects our
limitless potential to create greater futures.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Purpose, People, Planet

| have spoken earlier? about how a purpose-driven
approach can infuse greater resilience, adaptability
and innovation within the organization, and drive
greater rootedness in the community. In FY 2021,
alongside a new brand statement, we also articulated
our core purpose: building greater futures through
innovation and collective knowledge.

The first three words capture our forward-looking
worldview very well. We truly believe that everything
we do should result in better outcomes, and
therefore greater futures, for our stakeholders. The
emphasis on innovation and collective knowledge
represents core tenets of the belief system that has
sustained TCS over the last five decades, and shaped
our culture and guided our strategy.

It was this purpose-led approach which helped us
keep our employees safe and well even during the
bleakest phases of this pandemic. The proactive
outreach of our HR, touching over 400,000
employees, the 24/7 medical hotline, online
counseling services, and virtual sessions to foster
physical and emotional wellness brought us all closer
together during the year. We tied up with ambulance
services and hospitals and set up isolation centers
and quarantine accommodation at our facilities to

 

? Letter from the CEO, Integrated Annual Report, FY 2019-20

help employees cope with the disease and to ease
the load on stretched local medical infrastructure.

Our emphasis on organic talent development is a
natural outcome of this belief system, to help our
employees realize their potential. TCSers collectively
logged 43 million learning hours in FY 2021, building
expertise in a broad range of digital technologies
that will be critical to our customers’ transformation
needs.

We honored all the job offers we had made pre-
pandemic, and also onboarded all the trainees to
whom we had given offer letters. We had our normal
annual salary increase in October, and promotions
as well. In line with the strong recovery in demand,
we also ramped up our lateral hiring during the
second half of the year and ended the year with a
net addition of 40,185. By onboarding over 60,000
freshers over the last couple of years and training
them on the technologies most in demand, we have
created for ourselves, a secure talent pool to support
the growth ahead.

While this influx of fresh talent is very important for
our growth, even more critical has been our ability to
consistently retain the talent that we have cultivated
and grown in the organization. This year, we set a
new benchmark in talent retention. Our attrition in IT
services was 7.2%, the lowest in the industry globally,
and an all-time low by our own standards.

Letter From The CEO | 13
We continued to work with communities across the
world, pursuing our long-standing commitment to
programs in the areas of health, STEM education,
skills development and the bridging of digital divides.
In addition, we helped in the fightback against the
pandemic. Our researchers used Al to identify
promising new molecules which could potentially
inhibit the spread of the virus. Our data marketplace
solution is powering a critical national initiative to
double India’s COVID testing capacity.

Even more fulfilling is the work we do for our
customers which helps further their mission to save
lives. In the Life Sciences domain, our teams used our
innovative platform to streamline drug development
processes, speed up clinical trials, and help pharma
companies rush new therapies and vaccines to

the market. At a time when the world desperately
needed more ventilators and manufacturers were
struggling to increase production, our team worked
with the engineers at GE Healthcare to automate
the late-point configuration of ventilators. This
reduced the production time per ventilator by 6
minutes, enabling production of an additional 340
ventilators per month, helping ease suffering and
saving lives.

On the environment front, while | am pleased that
our large-scale switch to remote working helped
us cut our absolute carbon footprint by 48.8% over

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

the prior year, we are working on a longer-term
roadmap to neutralize our carbon footprint and bring
down atmospheric carbon towards helping the world
reach net-zero levels by 2050.

Our Vision 25x25 will be pivotal in this fight for

our planet. Equally important is the leading role

we are playing in helping our customers become
more energy efficient, whether it is by deploying

our Clever Energy solution that uses loT and Al to
remotely monitor and optimize energy consumption
across distributed facilities, or by helping them switch
from energy-inefficient in-house data centers to
more efficient public clouds.

Looking Ahead

We are entering FY 2022 with strong growth
momentum and with much better visibility for future
growth than we did last year, powered by a strong
order book built up throughout the year and a
robust deal pipeline. In the medium and longer term,
we see strong structural growth drivers triggered

by the multi-year technology refresh cycle that our
customers are embarking on, and their increased
focus on G&T initiatives.

The G&T opportunity is very large, and yet to be
fully scoped. The transformation imperative will
only strengthen over time, and as new technologies

emerge, new combinatorial possibilities will open up,
driving further investments by our customers. So we
believe this market will see tremendous growth in
the coming years.

That puts us in a very advantageous position. In
addition to the large outsourcing opportunity which
we continue to dominate, we are now entering a
large, growing opportunity that significantly expands
our addressable market. It is an exciting growth
journey we are embarking on for the next few years.
We thank you for your trust and look forward to
your continued support on the journey ahead.

Best Regards,

Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director

Letter From The CEO | 14
Performance Highlights’

Revenue Trend

CAGR 8.6%

—-——_____»—____»—_____»—_____o—
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021

X crore

Earnings per share* (Amount in 2)

CAGR 7.7%

————
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021*

“Earnings per share is adjusted for bonus issue
a a PLoS a ee

Were reser Reiceeg eerie Ti

Operating Profit Trend

FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021*

R crore mOperating Profit © Operating Margin

OCF# and Cash Conversion Xcrore

FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021*

# Operating Cash Flow mOCF OOCF to Net Profit Ratio

Client Metrics

105]
cy 99
va

Employee Metrics

 

FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021

mm $50 Mn+ Clients mm $100 Mnt Clients

Cash Usage**

§ Shareholder
Payouts

Capex
Acquisitions, etc.

§ Invested Funds

#4 Cash usage for the period FY 2017 to FY 2021

FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021

@ Total Headcount © Attrition (IT Services)

Shareholder Payouts Rcrore

ese 101.5%

6,000,

16,
16,000 (Mq Ma

FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021*

Dividend © Special Dividend mim Buyback, including tax
© Shareholder Payout ratio {Including special dividend and buyback, including tax)
# Includes proposed final dividend

Tanolae =a ela

 
EUROPE EUROPEAN IT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY
Unveiled brand RANKS TCS a Ey Aes haa a5 5);1e9)
nveiled a new Drand statement,
LA. Building on Belief, to articulate CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

TCS’ mission and relationship with
customers, and putting its vast experience in th YEAR a o
purpose-led transformation at the core of its 5 oy
brand story as it embarks on its next decade of In) a) (NW €40 nae y
transformation-led growth.

Ranked #2 in the PEAK Matrix® IT Service Provider
of the Year: ITS Top 20 by Everest Group, for being a
Leader in 18 evaluations and a Star Performer in 4, in
2020. Additionally, TCS was named the Leader of the
Year in Application Services and in Life Sciences, and
the Star Performer of the Year in Healthcare.

Launched the TCS COVID-19 Testing and Vaccine
Management Suite of modular, easy-to-deploy
solutions that leverage Al, robotics, blockchain and
the Internet of Things (loT) to streamline every stage
of the end-to-end testing and vaccination journeys,
enabling more individuals to get tested and vaccinated
faster and return to normal life experiences.

Completed the third successful share buyback

in four years, to the tune of 316,000 crore at
3,000 per share, through the tender offer route,
extinguishing 5.3 crore equity shares, representing
about 1.42 percent of the total equity.

“BASED ON STUDIES CONDUCTED BY WHITELANE RESEARCH, PA CONSULTING, QUINT WELLINGTON REDWCOD, NAVISCO AND VLERICK BUSINESS SCHOOL IN 0.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 aia [eteln == 10 i il)

 
Ranked #1 in Customer Satisfaction across Europe
in an independent survey of 1,700 CxOs of top

IT spending organizations by Whitelane Research.
Additionally, in the individual country rankings, TCS
was ranked #1 in UK, France, Germany, Austria,
Switzerland, Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and
the Nordics.

Ranked among the Top 3 brands in IT services by
Brand Finance; TCS clocked the highest absolute
brand value growth in the sector in 2020 and was
named the fastest growing brand in the industry over
the last decade (2010-2020).

Augmented the Banking Service Bureau
Q3 built and run by TCS for the digital

banking industry in Israel, with a new
transformative Digital Bank Guarantee platform,
powered by the Quartz® Blockchain solution. Bank
Hapoalim, Israel’s largest bank that manages over
30% of the total bank guarantees in the country, is
the anchor customer for the SaaS platform.

Launched TCS Clever Energy™, an energy and
emission management system that uses a digital
twin setup based on IoT, Al and cloud, to help
commercial and industrial organizations manage
their energy consumption better, drive energy and
cost efficiencies, decrease carbon emissions, and
accelerate their carbon neutral journeys.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

a9

 

Shri Faqir Chand Kohli

19th March 1924 — 26th November 2020

Your sense of purpose. Your clarity of vision.
Your unwavering belief in investing in people.
These have shaped TCS into what it is today.
We continue to draw inspiration from
your pioneering spirit.

The TCS family deeply mourns the passing of its 2:
founding CEO and the Father of Indian IT Industry. aa

Mourned the passing of FC Kohli (“FCK”), TCS’ first
CEO, and the Father of the Indian IT Industry, at the
age of 96. FCK came on board in 1969 and led the
company for the next 27 years, navigating multiple
technology waves by continually investing in people
and in research and innovation.

Established a strategic partnership with Prudential
Financial Inc (PFI), that saw over 1,500 employees
of Pramerica Systems Ireland Ltd, PFl’s Irish
subsidiary, transfer to TCS’ new global delivery center
in Ireland. Besides expanding the PFI relationship, the
new center enhances TCS’ nearshore capability to
provide a range of services to customers in Ireland,
the UK, Europe and the US.

Deepened the relationship with Deutsche Bank

by acquiring its subsidiary, Postbank Systems

AG (PBS), its full-range IT captive that provides
project management, application management and
infrastructure support services. The addition of
PBS’ 1,500 employees further adds to TCS’ scale in
Germany, and strengthens its growth outlook.

Selected as a Superbrand, in the US and UK,
based on the strength of its brand reputation
across channels, business performance, industry-
leading job creation, scale of employee training
and development, and dedication to nationwide
corporate social responsibility initiatives.

The Year Gone By | 17
Launched new cloud practice units to

gain leadership in the rapidly expanding

opportunity around the three major
hyperscale platforms — AWS, Microsoft Azure and
Google Cloud Platform. Each unit is a full-service,
multidisciplinary organization offering customers
the full range of transformational and operational
services on the respective technology stacks,
spanning advisory services, migration, application and
data modernization, including SaaS and enterprise
productivity suites, infrastructure, cyber-security and
edge.

The Contextual Masters program that recognizes
experienced TCSers who demonstrate high levels of
contextual knowledge, crossed the 10,000 masters
milestone. Contextual knowledge is highly valuable
tacit knowledge about a customer's business,
operations and technology landscape, acquired on
the job by immersing oneself into that environment,
a key differentiator for TCS.

Operationalized 10 new Threat Management
Centers, at Bloomington, Minnesota — US,
Manchester — UK, Madrid — Spain, as well as at major
Indian cities. These will offer comprehensive and
integrated cybersecurity and threat management
services across IT, OT, loT and cloud ecosystems,
helping customers stay secure and cyber-resilient

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

while meeting local data- and cyber-sovereignty
regulations.

Ran a TV campaign in India for the first time, titled
#TCSPartOfYourStory, showcasing the central role
played by TCS in building the technology backbone
of Digital India, transforming various sectors, and
becoming part of every Indian’s life.

Launched TCS Safe Workplace, a return-to-work
solution for global enterprises that uses existing
enterprise platforms to create a workplace command
center that assesses the readiness of employees,

the work environment and the workforce model;
automates the return-to-work processes, including
contact tracing, shift management, and workspace
planning; and monitors critical risk factors.

Opened up the game-changing National Qualifier
Test (NQT) to other corporates, making it a
common gateway test for fresher recruitment. This
standardized test will provide candidates with access
to open positions at multiple corporates, while
helping corporates get an in-depth understanding of
applicants’ cognitive abilities and reduce evaluation
overheads.

Ranked #2 by revenue in the UK market for
software and IT services in TechMarketView’s UK
SITS rankings, up from #5 in 2019. Further, based on
revenues earned, TCS was ranked #1 in Applications
and #2 in Consulting and Solutions.

Built and deployed a blockchain-based digital
supply chain platform, powered by the TCS Data
Marketplace solution, to support Indigenisation

of Diagnostics, an ambitious new project launched
by the Government of India to scale up indigenous
Covid-19 diagnostic test-kit production capacity to a
million test kits a day.

The Year Gone By |

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
Held India’s first ever virtual AGM,

enabling participation by a record number

of shareholders from different parts of
India, some of them for the very first time. Access to
the videoconference was from the NSDL e-voting
page, seamlessly linking the event to the online
voting process as well.

Successfully deployed TCS DynaPORT, a state-
of-the-art terminal operating system at Tilbury2
Ro-Ro, London’s latest freight ferry terminal. TCS
implemented this solution in under twelve weeks,
100% virtually during the COVID-19 lockdown,
leveraging the Secure Borderless Workspaces™
(SBWS™) model.

Launched a SaaS version of the ignio™ suite of
autonomous software. Further, the suite was
expanded to include three new products: ignio
Cognitive Procurement to help enterprises

make smarter purchase decisions, ignio Al.Digital
Workspace, a self-healing, end-user experience
management software, and ignio Studio, a low-code
toolkit that allows customers to extend the out-of-
the-box capabilities of the ignio software suite.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Offered free of cost access to TCS iON Digital Glass
Room, a virtual learning platform, to educational
institutions in the US, Europe and India, to enable
educators and students to connect in a secure virtual
environment, moving lessons from classrooms to
interactive digital glass rooms.

Fully institutionalized the SBWS operating model
and also replicated it for customers. The model was
strengthened with additional analytics and extended
to cover the end-to-end customer engagement
lifecycle, including prospecting, sale and even new

project ramp FA

The Year Gone By |
 

The idea of setting up a technology research center
in India, when none existed, was born out of a core
belief that the future would be shaped by computers,
and that R&D was key to value creation. For FC Kohli
(“FCK”), the visionary who helmed TCS in its start-up
years, the complete lack of technology research in
India in the 70s was simply unacceptable. Around
1980, having launched TCS’ global ambitions with
the first overseas office in New York, he turned his
attention to this problem.

He commissioned academicians at MIT and the
University of Waterloo to think through the scope
and mandate of such a center, and come up with a
report. He pulled in Prof E C Subba Rao, who was
teaching at IIT Kanpur to drive this endeavor. At the
time, an industrial research center by a business
house was unheard of in India. But the House of

Tatas, with its history of pioneering many other firsts,

was best suited for it. JRD Tata was very supportive.
He was keen that the Group establishes an
institution that would apply science and technology
for the benefit of Indian industry and people.

So It came to be that FCK’s dream was realized on
October 8, 1981, the new Tata Research Design and
Development Centre (TRDDC), was officially open.
Right from the start, TRDDC’s mandate was broad,
researching problems not just in IT, but also in other

domains. This too was an outcome of FCK’s belief
that “computers would be the tool that all industry
would use, willy-nilly, in the future.”

Mastering Automation

A core research theme at TRDDC in its early years
was a topic close to FCK’s heart — the automation of
software development. The technology landscape in
the 80s was in a state of ferment, with newer, more
powerful computers, operating systems, databases
and programming languages. But software was still
hand coded and very artisanal. So customers wishing
to upgrade were dissuaded by the effort and cost of
re-engineering their existing systems.

TRDDC built language translators, converters and
compilers using which TCS was able to win many of
these upgradation opportunities. It used automation
to transform the legacy systems much faster, and
with higher quality, reliability and traceability than
its competitors of that era. TRDDC’s tools foundry
represented the ultimate conversion toolset,
automatically generating compilers for any source
and target programming language. Depending on
the needs of individual projects, compilers could be
created on demand and shipped to those project
teams.

TRDDC: Built on a Belief in the Future | 20
Continued research around software engineering
and systems engineering culminated in the
development of a suite of software tools that

could extract business logic from legacy code, and
automatically generate high quality code in any
desired programming language from a model. These
resulted in the TCS MasterCraft™ suite of intelligent
automation products that is today the mainstay

of customers’ application and data modernization
programs as part of their cloud transformation
journeys.

Innovating at the Intersections

TCS’ collaborative approach to co-innovation with
customers, leveraging collective knowledge, which

is helping it differentiate itself in the growth and
transformation market today, has its roots in how
TRDDC engaged with its clients in those early

years. In an interview!, Subba Rao recalled, “The two
sides had lots of dialogue. This was unlike what most
consultants did. We always took the view that the
client should be part of the solution. The clients and we
published case studies and research papers of successful
solutions, jointly.”

Scientists at TRDDC were an eclectic set. Different
research teams, working side by side, made possible
cross-pollination of ideas and multidisciplinary
research at the intersection of different domains:

 

+ Research by Design — Innovation at TCS, 2007

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

computing and materials, biosciences, mathematical
and behavioral sciences. Such blue-sky research at
the intersections of industries is today foundational
to TCS’ ability to orchestrate purpose-driven, cross-
industry ecosystems for boundaryless innovation on
the cloud.

Founded forty years ago, one of many firsts that
TCS pioneered over the last five decades, the Tata
Research Design and Development Center lived
up to its founder's belief and went on to shape
the company’s present-day approach to research,
innovation, growth and transformation. TRDDC’s

outstanding contributions over the decades to the

Research for Social Good

company’s growth, to the expansion of knowledge

and to society truly make it the embodiment of

With its expansive mandate and the Tata Group’s
guiding ethos, TRDDC took up many research
themes around social and environmental issues.
These resulted in frugal innovations like low-
maintenance water filters for rural areas, eco-friendly
cement, award-winning test kits for tuberculosis,

and of course, the game-changing Computer-based
Functional Literacy software that was to be the
mainstay of large-scale adult literacy programs in
India and elsewhere.

This tradition of pursuing a broad set of ideas which
benefit society at large continues to this day. TCS’
Research & Innovation group uses technology for
such diverse social causes as helping the differently
abled, scaling up Covid test kit production in India,
designing tests for biomarkers to predict premature
birth, identifying promising molecules for drug
development and innovative ways to help customers
reduce their carbon footprint.

Built on ¢

the TCS ethos of building greater futures through
innovation and collective knowledge.

a

meneame Leela

 
 

Phoenix Group has evolved into the UK’s largest
long-term savings and retirement business, pursuing

a growth strategy that leverages key industry trends
to consolidate and scale up its Heritage business, while
organically growing its Open business and deepening
existing customer relationships to meet broader
customer needs as they journey to and through
retirement. This in turn supports Phoenix Group in
delivering its purpose of helping people secure a life of
possibilities.

Phoenix Group’s 15-year long partnership with TCS has
given it a scalable, customer-centric digital operating
model that supports perpetual transformation, driving
both aspects of its growth strategy.

At the core of this model is the TCS BFSI Platform
for Life & Pensions powered by TCS BaNCS™, which
has simplified and modernized Phoenix Group’s
technology stack, enabled greater innovation through
easier and faster design and rollout of new products,
and transformed all the processes across the end-to-
end customer Journey, hyper-automating them with
straight-through-processing for faster turnaround
times.

By previously consolidating more than 7.4 million
policies scattered across disparate systems on the
new platform, TCS has helped Phoenix Group retire
hundreds of legacy systems, drive synergies from its

acquisitions and unlock significant value. It is currently
transforming another 6 million policies.

On the front-end, TCS is helping the Phoenix Group
enhance and personalize the customer, employer,

and adviser experiences, adopting a more data and
insights-driven approach. These initiatives have
resulted in a 400% increase in site visits to its online
customer self-service tool, the use of which has seen
an 8x improvement in individual life cover claims
processing, as well as 85% of encashment claims
settled in under 3 days compared to 12 days on
traditional channels. It also has reduced customer
complaints and enhanced customer satisfaction. At the
new, jointly developed Innovation Hub in Edinburgh,
designers and domain experts from both organizations
will work with end-users to envision new offerings and
innovative experiences.

Partnering with TCS for its growth and transformation
is enabling the Phoenix Group to adapt quickly to
regulatory and market changes, and provide intuitive,
personalized experiences to customers, advisers,

and employers on a fully digital platform. With a

new operating model that is establishing industry
benchmarks in efficiency, agility and customer-
centricity, Phoenix Group Is set to power ahead with
its strategy to capture new growth opportunites: A\

Customer Stories | 22
Toyo Tire Corporation, one of the world’s leading
tire manufacturers headquartered in Japan, seeks
to delight its customers with its products through
constant technological innovation, enabled by
fostering creativity and entrepreneurial thinking.

Recognizing the importance of proper tire
maintenance in ensuring safety and maximizing
efficiency, Toyo Tire partnered with TCS to explore
how technology could be used to help its customers
— fleet owners and transport service providers

— reduce the time and effort spent in physically
inspecting individual tires for wear.

TCS used its Bringing Life to Things™ loT framework
to envision a new automated system that would
meet Toyo Tire’s vision. The solution uses
components of TCS DigiFleet™, its loT-enabled
suite for fleet managers, to automatically gather data
on tire conditions from sensors installed on wheels
of trucks, buses, and other transport vehicles, help
visualize the data, provide real time insights and
transmit it to the cloud. This data along with other
information is then used by Toyo’s proprietary Al
model to accurately estimate the extent of wear of
the tires.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

By partnering with TCS in this journey, Toyo Tire
is poised to launch an innovative business model,

offering a whole host of predictive maintenance and

advisory services to its customers, and powering its

future srowth. A\

   
    

Customer-centricity, agility and
digital innovation have been at the
core of Toyo Tire’s ability to launch
innovative new products and services
that delight our customers and
create a distinct brand positioning for
US.

Our new tire wear estimation model,
built in collaboration with TCS,
enables an innovative services-based
business model that powers our
future growth. TCS brought a lot of
digital expertise, creative ideas and
intellectual property. Their passion
for innovation and shared values
have made them a key part of our

digital innovation journey.

Tetsuo Shimomura

DGM - DX Promotion Division
Toyo Tire Corporation
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

BUILDING ON BELIEF:
A Panel Discussion

 

WHAT DOES YOUR NEW BRAND STATEMENT
‘BUILDING ON BELIEF’ MEAN TO YOU AND TO
CUSTOMERS?

Every new idea or innovation is born out of the
belief that it will build something better. In research
and innovation, belief is central to the survival of
an idea at every stage, determining whether it will
be picked from among other worthy candidates for
further development, or will get past resistance when
further progress looks impossible. Only by striving
on with passion and faith, can ideas be brought to
fruition, making a big difference to the enterprise.

Our new brand statement highlights the role that
TCS has been playing in helping customers scale up
and accelerate their innovation programs and realize
those ideas they truly believe in. By contributing
high quality ideas backed by a deep understanding
of the customer's business and technology contexts,

our teams act as force multipliers, giving customers
many more ideas for potential development than
they could have managed on their own. This in turn
improves their yield - the chances of hitting upon a
winning innovation that gives them the competitive
differentiation they are looking for.

Everything that Ananth Just mentioned about
innovation applies equally to business transformation.
To me, digital transformation is innovation applied
at scale to an organization’s business model, its
customer engagement, and its operations. The
most successful business transformation programs
are those which are purpose-led. We help every
customer realize that purpose.

TCS has intrinsically been built on strong beliefs
which have profoundly shaped our organization
culture. By adopting a purpose-led approach —
putting the customer at the center, continually
investing in people, and helping them build long,
fulfilling careers with TCS—we have created a
sustainable business model that has proved itself
over the last five decades.

Panel Discussion | 24
Customers truly appreciate this and see us asa
strategic partner who remains current across cycles
while helping them also stay current. Employees
appreciate this too and it has resulted in industry-
leading talent retention and an invaluable repository
of contextual knowledge, both of which are
competitive differentiators.

KR: There is a large growth and transformation
market in which we want to expand TCS’ footprint
and gain further share from legacy consulting
organizations. In that context, the new brand
statement is very timely and reflects that aspiration.
Building on Belief is a way for us to signal to

all customers and prospects that TCS will work
alongside them in their G&T journeys, with a sense
of shared purpose and help them realize their vision.

YOU HAVE BEEN SPEAKING ABOUT GROWTH
AND TRANSFORMATION FOR THE LAST THREE
YEARS. WHY THE RENEWED FOCUS NOW?

NGS: Yes, we have been winning quite a few growth
and transformation engagements with the Business
4.0™ thought leadership framework. Some of these
stories have been showcased in our recent annual
reports. While the number of such deals has been
steadily increasing, it is only a small foothold in the
larger opportunity.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

As we embark on a new multi-year technology

cycle, the move to the cloud will open phenomenal
opportunities for our customers to further innovate,
transform, differentiate themselves and power their
future growth. Their growth and transformation
investment is going to leapfrog in the coming years.
This not only expands the addressable market but
also provides a secular tailwind to power TCS’ growth
over the next decade. Hence, this renewed focus.

HOW DO YOU ACTUALLY WIN THESE DEALS?
ARE THERE RFPS FOR GROWTH AND
TRANSFORMATION?

NGS: There are multiple scenarios: RFP driven
transformation deals and proactive proposals. In the
first scenario, customers typically know what they
want to accomplish and look to us for knowhow.
Whereas, in the latter, account teams proactively
identify business problems that are critical for a
customer, and put together high-level solution

ideas which they pitch to customers. This is often
followed by more detailed workshops that eventually
culminate in a full-fledged engagement.

KAK: In the second scenario, TCS Research &
Innovation is a catalyst. We often organize account-
level ideathons to crowdsource creative ideas which
address our customers’ most pressing business
problems, leveraging our contextual knowledge.

We brainstorm on these and other proactive ideas at

 

TCS has intrinsically been built on
strong beliefs which have profoundly
shaped our organization culture. By
adopting a purpose-led approach—
putting the customer at the center,
continually investing in people, and

helping them build long, fulfilling
careers with TCS—we have created
a sustainable business model that

has proved itself over the last five
decades.

our Innovation Days and deliver selected ones in rapid
Agile sprints to the customer. Many of these activities
are now anchored at our PacePorts™.

Our Annual Innovation Forums and TCS PacePorts
are key avenues that fuel innovation. At the Innovation
Forums, our customers and partners, including start-
ups, talk about the innovative work they are doing in
partnership with TCS, while PacePorts showcase our
innovative solutions across different verticals, often
triggering new ideas among customers and resulting
in productive conversations.

Panel Discussion | 25
KR: Chance favors the prepared mind. In addition
to the avenues described by NGS and Ananth, TCS’
Business 4.0 thought leadership framework that
has been updated to address pandemic and post-
pandemic challenges and our multi-horizon cloud
transformation roadmap, provide a great starting
point to jointly envision the aspirational end-state
capabilities with the C-Suite.

Our sales teams leverage a steadily expanding
suite of transformation offerings aligned to
emerging themes, which they can readily adapt to
each customer’s unique circumstances. One very
successful approach has been to benchmark the
customer against best-in-class metrics in their
industry, identify the gaps across different areas

of their operations, and then use design thinking
principles to help top management chalk an inside-
out roadmap for their growth and transformation.

With each successful G&T engagement, the positive
references build up and we are sought by other
customers facing similar business problems to help
them in their transformation journeys. For example,
a recent annual report? highlighted how we helped
the Bayer Group build a replicable business carve-

out model to execute quick divestitures. In FY 2021,

several customers who were restructuring their
portfolios to sharpen their business focus and free
up capital, partnered with us for our divestiture

offerings. Other common themes we saw this
year included supply chain transformation in the
manufacturing and consumer goods sectors, and
omnichannel transformation in retail.

Across industries, we are picking up promising
themes that emerge from ongoing G&T
engagements which address broader business
problems that may be relevant to other enterprises,
and are productizing those offerings. This organic
manner of steadily expanding our portfolio of
transformation offerings lowers the execution risk
for our customers.

WHAT ROLE DOES YOUR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY, PRODUCTS AND PLATFORMS PLAY
IN THE G&T OPPORTUNITY?

NGS: Intellectual property is one of TCS’ biggest
differentiators, and it has played a pivotal role in
many of our largest G&T engagements. Our patents,
products, and platforms stand testimony to our
technology expertise and business knowledge.

The TCS BFSI Platform for Life and Pensions
continues to be the operating model of choice for
insurers looking to reimagine customer experience.
In last year’s annual report’, we had carried the M&G
story. In FY 2021 too, we signed a very large deal
with the Phoenix Group, to drive the growth and

 

+ Page 19, TCS Annual Report 2018-19

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

? Page 21, TCS Annual Report 2019-20

transformation of their Standard Life business and
meet the future needs of their customers, workplace
clents and their advisers.

Similarly, the TCS ADD platform transforms the end-
to-end drug development process which is at the core
of any life sciences company’s value creation engine.
In FY 2021, one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical
companies deployed TCS ADD Analytics & Insights,
an Al-powered adaptive monitoring solution to
transform the oversight of over 200 clinical trials,
strengthening oversight effectiveness and improving
the efficacy of the studies.

Some solutions are transformational not just at

an enterprise level, but at an industry level. Israel’s
Ministry of Finance wanted to rejuvenate its banking
sector, spark greater innovation, and democratize
consumer access to banking. We helped them realize
that vision by building a banking service bureau
powered by TCS BaNCS™, to serve as a shared digital
banking operations platform that neo-banks can use
to launch their operations very quickly. First Digital
Bank, the first bank in Israel to receive a banking
license in 40 years, commenced its digital-only
operations leveraging our platform in March 2021.

KAK: Many G&T initiatives are centered around
enhancing the customer journey and scaling up the
organization’s ability to quickly launch innovative
products and services. Our Al-based TwinX supports
the digital simulation of an enterprise, or an

Panel Discussion | 26
enterprise digital twin. Key entities such as customer,
product, process, network, and resource are

mapped, so businesses can test strategic decisions
such as new product rollouts or the launch of new
channels, before piloting them in the market. Several
customers are using TwinX today for what-if analyses
especially in areas like the ideal customer Journey,
reducing customer churn as well as potential fraud.

As customers start exploring opportunities in
ecosystem innovation, they can leverage TCS’ Data
Marketplace solution and our Quartz™ Blockchain
solution, to orchestrate or participate in ecosystems
and seamlessly and securely exchange data with
partners on a real time basis.

YOUR PEERS HAVE ALSO BEEN WINNING A LOT
OF VERY LARGE DEALS IN RECENT TIMES. DOES
THIS REPRESENT A LOSS OF MARKET SHARE
FOR TCS?

NGS: Fourteen years ago, when we won our first
billion-dollar deal, it was path breaking because it
represented our coming of age. Having won against
the largest names of that era, it demonstrated our
ability to put together winning, multi-tower deal
constructs. Today, winning such large outsourcing
deals is essential for revenue growth and visibility, but
it is a hygiene factor and no longer a differentiator.

We win more than a fair share of such very large
deals every year. In FY 2021, we had an order book

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

of $31.6 billion, 17% higher than the previous year.
Very importantly, these are not just large plain
vanilla outsourcing deals, but also higher-value
G&T deals. Every year, we close several very large
transformational deals, including one in FY 2021
with a TCV of over $2.4 billion.

WHAT GIVES YOU THE CONFIDENCE THAT
YOU ARE ON A LONGER-TERM GROWTH
TRAJECTORY AND NOT JUST BENEFITING
FROM SHORT TERM PENT-UP DEMAND?

KR: While | don’t deny some amount of pent-up
demand playing out, but as NGS mentioned earlier,
the adoption of hyperscaler clouds by our customers
is a pivotal point, setting them on a course of
increasing technology investments over the next
few years, all aimed at harnessing the rich native
capabilities available within the hyperscaler stacks for
innovation, growth and transformation.

Our sharpened focus on the high value G&T
opportunity and investments around deepening our
solutioning capabilities will result in a quantum leap in
the size of our addressable market. We are confident
that the secular tailwind from increased spends and
our own investments and focused efforts will drive a
better growth trajectory in the years ahead.

NGS: Another important driver of longer term
growth is the structural shift within the technology
market, leading to growing primacy of IT services.

Let me explain. If you look at the evolution of
technology spends over the last five decades,
hardware held complete primacy in the first four
decades, with software and services serving
subordinate roles. Over time, proprietary hardware
gave way to standardized architectures, setting the
stage for virtualization and commoditization.

We see that cycle repeating now with packaged
software. SaaS models are driving standardization and
commoditization of software. So even as enterprises
invest in upgrading their technologies, they will invest
even more on IT services because only service-
providers like TCS can help them harness these

very powerful and commoditized technologies to
create unique combinatorial solutions that provide
competitive differentiation. The next decade will
clearly be the decade of IT serwices. 4 \

Our sharpened focus on the high value
G&T opportunity and investments
around deepening our solutioning
capabilities will result in a quantum leap
in the size of our addressable market.

We are confident that the secular
tailwind from increased spends and our
own investments and focused efforts
will drive a better growth trajectory in
[a ato -F-1E ME] alctcleR

 
The postal tindustry is profoundly
transforming resulting in challenges
spanning from logistics to
profitability. It was imperative for us
to accelerate our transformation into
a customer centric and sustainable
omni-commerce group. The decision
to work with TCS was not driven

by a technology choice, but their
transformation abilities!

Nico Cools
ClO & Chief Digital Officer, bpost SA

 

With e-commerce making inroads at an exponential
pace and declining mail volumes, bpost is on a
multi-year growth and transformation journey to
transform into a customer centric and sustainable
global omni-commerce leader, with the vision

of making Belgium a gateway for e-commerce
logistics. TCS is a strategic advisor, helping bpost
shape its transformation journey by reimagining the
customer experience and building a digital core that
will drive new business opportunities and accelerate
innovation.

The parcel delivery business not only rides high on
customer emotions but is highly competitive and
entails logistical complexity which can drive up the
cost of customer service. Experience designers from
TCS Interactive Design labs digitally reimagined the
end-to-end parcel lifecycle by mapping all customer
touchpoints and analyzing key factors impacting

Net Promoter Score (NPS), including social media
sentiment analysis. They designed an intuitive and
engaging digital experience with a mobile-first
approach and also enabled 24x7 digital customer
service across all channels with chatbots. bpost
customers can now track and trace parcels through
proactive notifications and enjoy flexible options

for receiving parcels at home, at neighbors, or at a
participating store. Returns processing is simplified with
just 3 steps, including the ability to print shipping labels.

Powered by advanced analytics, the TCS-designed
Dynamic Routing Model generates optimized,
efficient, and accurate route plans with increased
parcel density per route, ensuring first-time-right
delivery. Simulations and scenario planning are
used to predict parcel volume growth and statistical
techniques ensure optimal workload distribution
among delivery personnel.

With a penetration of 1 in every 4 Belgian
households, and a rating much higher than similar
apps from competitors, the mybpost app has
contributed to an 8% growth in NPS and 18%
reduction in customer service requests. With the
use of advanced analytics for optimized parcel
delivery, TCS helped bpost successfully handle a
2.5X growth in parcel volumes in 2020, with margin
and EBIT growth, increased efficiency, and most
importantly, higher customer satisfaction, bringing
it closer to its ambition.

a)

Customer Stories | 28
Helping the State of Connecticut Provide Pandemic Relief

to the Unemployed

Following the devastating job losses due to the
pandemic, Connecticut’s Department of Labor
(CTDOL) found itself inundated with over a million
applications for unemployment insurance, almost ten
years’ worth of applications in a single year.

Additionally, it had to administer the federally
funded Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA)
program under the CARES Act and extended by

the Continued Assistance Act, which provided up

to S600/week for up to fifty weeks to the self-
employed, independent contractors, and gig workers
who were ordinarily ineligible for unemployment
assistance, but whose livelihoods had been affected
by the pandemic.

CTDOL wanted to swiftly implement the PUA
program but their mainframe-based legacy system
was not easy to modify.

CTDOL approached its transformation partner, TCS,
to help implement the PUA program urgently. TCS
was already working on CTDOL’s Unemployment
Insurance Modernization program, replacing its
legacy system with a modern, multi-tenant, cloud-
based platform, designed, developed and managed
by TCS for the ReEmployUSA consortium. Given

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

the urgency of the situation, the TCS team worked
over a weekend to come up with a plan to rapidly
implement a new cloud-based standalone PUA
system.

In just five weeks, TCS, working closely with CTDOL,
quickly designed and deployed a new cloud-based
standalone PUA system, and integrated it with
CTDOL’s legacy unemployment insurance system.
The new PUA system streamlined the workflows and
leveraged advanced analytics to prevent fraudulent
claims. Its cloud-native architecture scaled well -
easily handling the 10,000 claims filed on the very
first day of its launch. Till date, over $1 billion in
benefits has been paid through the new system.

Powered by a deep belief in itself, TCS built the
complete solution in just weeks, helping CTDOL
live up to its mission of delivering unemployment
assistance to self-employed individuals in their hour
of need.

&

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

VR: Yes, I think so. In service delivery, any and

every in-person activity that entailed travel and
other overheads, was successfully executed entirely
remotely last year using SBWS. It is faster, safer, and
in many cases, results in better outcomes because we
can assign the best talent for the job, unconstrained
by location, mobility and visa availability. In the longer
term, this significantly de-risks service delivery for
customers, and our business model.

The other change is on the demand front. A full year
of remote working has changed the thinking around
managerial supervision. Executives across the world
have had to adopt a more outcome-focused versus
acitvity-based approach. This is helping increase

the reliance on partners who can take end to end
responsibility for defined scope.

That is very timely because enterprises embarking
on growth and transformation journeys are revisiting
their operations and looking for ways to free up staff
to redeploy them on transformation projects, and
also to reduce costs to fund the new work. So | think
there will be a much higher propensity to outsource
and automate in the coming years, and also a greater
openness to location-agnostic models.

ML: The other structural change is to our workplace.
Whenever the pandemic is contained and we start
normalizing, we will start transitioning to a more
hybrid working model in line with our Vision 25x25,
that captures all the benefits of the remote model
and addresses its challenges. To recap, we envisage
that by year 2025, no more than 25% of our
employees would need to be at a TCS facility at a
point in time, and no individual would have to spend
more than 25% of their time at a TCS facility to be
100% productive.

We believe this is a more balanced approach, and

will give our employees the best of both worlds. In
this model, the role of the office itself will change
significantly. Earlier, the office was where one
performed day-to-day activities, and offsites were
meant for business planning or team motivation. The
new model flips that. Our offices will become ideation

Q&A | 30
and innovation hubs, using in-person interactions for
brainstorming and team-building, while day-to-day
work can be performed from anywhere.

YOUR MARGINS IMPROVED IN FY 2021,
BENEFITING FROM LOWER TRAVEL AND
FACILITIES EXPENSES. HOW SUSTAINABLE IS
THIS?

VR: We believe our industry-leading operating
margin is a reflection of our relative competitiveness.
While there may be some small movements here
and there, our margins have shown tremendous
resilience over the last decade. We don’t see any
structural threat to our competitiveness in the
foreseeable future, so our margins should remain
stable.

Specific to FY 2021, we started off with a very
sudden ramp down in demand, our Q1 revenue
reducing by 6.3% year on year in constant currency.
However we took an industry-defining stand that we
would not let go any employees due to the demand
contraction, and also committed to onboarding all
45,000 job offers we had made. The industry-wide
reductions in travel, facilities and some marketing
expenses helped offset this.

The second half of the year saw a sharp growth

recovery, and the emergence of a multi year growth
cycle. We immediately rewarded our employees

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

with a normal salary hike in October and regular
promotions, much ahead of the rest of the industry.
We also invested significantly in Covid care and
relief efforts, and contributed handsomely to the
commitments by the Tata Group.

So overall, | am very pleased with the way we were
able to deal with a very fluid situation, balancing
the needs of our customers, employees, and
communities, and yet deliver an industry-leading
operating margin of 25.9%*, an expansion of 1.3%*
over the prior year.

Looking ahead, we expect demand, revenue and
operating costs to normalise and come back to our
long term comfort zones. That, along with higher
quality revenues from our expanding participation in
the growth and transformation opportunity, greater
operating efficiencies from continuing innovations to
the delivery model — such as talent clouds — will help
us sustain our operating margin at current levels.

WHAT ARE TALENT CLOUDS AND HOW DO
THEY CHANGE THE DELIVERY MODEL?

ML: The talent cloud is an innovation enabled by
our SBWS operating model. Historically, we serviced
customers from specific delivery centers, and staffed
any new project largely with individuals based out of
those locations. With SBWS, we did away with that

 

* Excluding an exceptional item provided towards a contested legal claim

constraint. We are now using Al to autonomously
match individuals with the requisite skill profiles

to open opportunities, regardless of their physical
location. This is enabling access to a larger pool of
talent, better fitment, significantly faster allocations
and superior outcomes.

Its true value lies in talent fungibility, where, for
example, a cyber-security expert or an expert team,
can be part-allocated to multiple assignments at the
same time, enabling all those customer engagements
to gain from sharing that high-quality expertise.

Customers are very pleased with the faster project
ramp-ups that this has enabled, as well as the
superior outcomes that follow from better fitment. It
also opens up more opportunities for our employees,
particularly those in smaller locations, driving up
employee satisfaction levels and talent retention. At
an aggregate level, this is helping reduce mean time
between allocations, and drive up utilization across
the system.

HOW DOES YOUR NEW FOCUS ON GROWTH
AND TRANSFORMATION DEALS AFFECT YOUR
MARGINS AND YOUR INVESTMENTS? HOW
WILL IT AFFECT CAPITAL ALLOCATION? WILL
YOU ALSO ACQUIRE A CONSULTING OUTFIT?

VR: These deals have lower competitive intensity,
and customers evaluate us on the merits of our
solution and not on price. So these are high quality

Q&A | 31
revenues, and as their share increases, they will lend
further resilience to our busines. Overall we have
always believed in taking a holistic view to the service
portfolio, continously investing in newer services
that increase our overall relevance to our customers,
which gives us competitive differentiation, and
supports our industry-leading profitability.

In terms of investment, keep in mind that

our approach to growth and transformation
engagements is very differentiated. We are not
trying to replicate the legacy consulting model. To
expand our presence in this opportunity, we will
invest in deepening our solutioning capabilities,
organically. We will invest in more research and

AAV r= iN c-MOU Lam aCelU=3o acd -t-el[ are)
operating margin ts a reflection
of our relative competitiveness.
While there may be some small

movements here and there, our
margins have shown tremendous
resilience over the last decade.
We don't see any structural threat
to our competitiveness in the
foreseeable future, so our margins
should remain stable.

 

innovation, and in the various HR initiatives that
Milind will speak about. We won't acquire something
just to grow our consulting revenue.

At a broad level, we remain open to acquisition
opportunities if they are attractive and and value
accretive. Our capital allocation policy continues to
be to return most of the free cash flow we generate
each year to our shareholders.

ML: On the people front, we continue to believe

in growing our own talent, and are scaling up our
campus recruitment of management graduates from
premier business schools in India and elsewhere,

as well as engineering talent from top technology
institutes. Given our differentiated, inside-out
approach to growth and transformation, we are
investing in various programs to promote business
thinking and foster contextual knowledge across the
organization.

Our Contextual Masters program has identified
16,000 individuals till date with deep insights of

our customers’ business and technology contexts.
We are bringing them and others into our strategic
talent development initiatives, and scaling these
programs to create a large and diverse cadre of next
generation growth and transformation leaders, who
can help customers explore the art of the possible
in their respective contexts and steer them through
organizational change.

SOME OF YOUR PEERS HAVE SPOKEN OF A
WAR FOR TALENT. YOU DON’T LOOK TOO
WORRIED. WHY?

ML: Our sustained investments in organic talent
development at scale are paying off. Our state of
the art talent development infrastructure is helping
us align our planning with emerging customer
requirements. So we are fulfilling most of the open
positions requiring new technology skills using in-
house groomed candidates, and don’t rely too much
on lateral recruits.

Additionally, we have created a deep pipeline of
digital talent by hiring over 30,000 fresh engineering
graduates each year, including a cadre of high
performers, and training them on new technologies
which are most in demand.

Even more important than acquiring new talent is
retaining our existing talent that we have invested
in, and groomed over the years. We continue to be
the industry leader in talent retention, with our IT
services attrition rate falling to an all-time low of
7.2% this year. So we are very proud of our talent
strategy and investments, and immensely excited
about the future growth it is helping rower 4\

Q&A | 32
Transforming Novolex into a Futuristic, Intelligent Enterprise

After years of strong top line growth driven by
multiple acquisitions, Novolex, a leader in packaging
innovation, recognized that to continue to drive
profitable growth through M&A, it would need to
fix the disparate set of processes, organizational
structures and customer experiences, all resulting
from a sprawl of 11 disparate ERP systems built up
from years of acquisitions. The siloed operations
were hindering the company’s ability to drive
sustainable synergies and deliver a unified customer
experience.

Novolex partnered with TCS to drive its end-to-end
business transformation and create a new cloud-
based digital core using the SAP S/4HANA platform
to support its future growth. TCS’ consultants
worked with Novolex through the full lifecycle

of its business transformation, starting with the
development of the business case and roadmap,
establishment of a transformation management
office, design of a standardized global template, all
the way through to deployment and realization of
benefits.

The new platform has eliminated the silos, enabled
significant savings and ongoing SGA efficiencies,
improved executive visibility into business
performance and delivered faster time to market.
The simplified consolidated financial reporting

has reduced monthly and quarterly closing from
5 days to 3 days. More effective rebate programs
and efficient commission payment processes have
improved pricing efficiency and increased sales
margin.

Applying design thinking principles and leveraging
its domain depth and expertise across digital
technologies, TCS helped Novolex realize its
vision of delivering a ‘One Novolex’ experience

to its customers. Today, TCS continues to engage
with Novolex in a sustain mode to drive perpetual
transformation and further increase its return on
investment.

a

 
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been the driving
force in creating the nation’s payment systems,
operating with the strong belief that innovative,
secure and efficient payment mechanisms are central
to economic growth. TCS has been RBI's digital
transformation partner for the last two decades,
building the systems needed to help the central bank
realize this belief.

The two important online payment systems run

by the Reserve Bank of India, namely, National
Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) and Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS), have both been enabled
by robust and scalable technology platforms built and
maintained by TCS.

The underlying messaging infrastructure that enables
the smooth interchange of data is the Structured
Financial Messaging System, a TCS innovation that
connects over 70,000 branches of over 200 banks
and clearing houses in India.

Today, these two platforms process over 260 million
payment transactions, worth $1.5 trillion, every
month.

In the latest development, TCS teams enhanced both
platforms and their related ecosystems to enable
successful introduction of NEFT 24x365 in 2019,
and then RTGS 24x365 in 2020, making India one

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

of the few countries in the world to operate a real-
time, large value payment system round the clock.

This has led to faster settlements, improved
liquidity, reduced cost for retail payment systems,
and enhanced ease of doing business, fulfilling the
purpose of giving further impetus to Digital India’s
progress.

a\

 
Notice

Integrated Annual Report

 

Notice is hereby given that the twenty-sixth Annual
General Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited will be held on Thursday, June 10, 2021 at
3:30 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) /
Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM’) to transact the
following business:

1.

To receive, consider and adopt:

a. the Audited Standalone Financial
Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2021,
together with the Reports of the Board of
Directors and the Auditors thereon; and

b. the Audited Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2021,
together with the Report of the Auditors
thereon.

To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends on
Equity Shares and to declare a Final Dividend on
Equity Shares for the financial year 2020-21.

To appoint a Director in place of

N Chandrasekaran (DIN 00121863) who retires
by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for
re-appointment.

Notes:

1.

In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic,
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has
vide its circular nos. 14/2020 and 17/2020
dated April 8, 2020 and April 13, 2020
respectively, in relation to “Clarification on
passing of ordinary and special resolutions by
companies under the Companies Act, 2013
and the rules made thereunder on account

of the threat posed by Covid-19”, circular

no. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020 in relation

to “Clarification on holding of annual general
meeting (AGM) through video conferencing
(VC) or other audio visual means (OAVM)”

and Circular no. 02/2021 dated January 13,
2021 in relation to “Clarification on holding of
annual general meeting (AGM) through video
conferencing (VC) or other audio visual means
(OAVM)” (collectively referred to as “MCA
Circulars”) and Securities and Exchange Board
of India (“SEBI’) vide its circular no.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79

dated May 12, 2020 in relation to “Additional
relaxation in relation to compliance with
certain provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations
2015 — Covid-19 pandemic” and circular no.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated

Notice | 35
January 15, 2021 in relation to “Relaxation
from compliance with certain provisions of

the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 due to the
CoVID -19 pandemic” (collectively referred to
as “SEBI Circulars”) permitted the holding of the
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through

VC / OAVM, without the physical presence of
the Members at a common venue. In compliance
with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the
AGM of the members of the Company is being
held through VC / OAVM. The registered office
of the Company shall be deemed to be the
venue for the AGM.

The relevant details, pursuant to Regulations
26(4) and 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries
of India, in respect of Director seeking
re-appointment at this AGM are also annexed
to this Notice.

Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013 (“Act”) a Member entitled to attend
and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a
proxy to attend and vote on his / her behalf
and the proxy need not be a Member of the

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Company. Since this AGM is being held pursuant
to the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars
through VC / OAVM, physical attendance of
Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly,
the facility for appointment of proxies by the
Members will not be available for the AGM and
hence the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and
route map of the AGM are not annexed to this
Notice.

Institutional / Corporate shareholders (i.e. other
than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required

to send a scanned copy (PDF / JPG Format)

of their respective Board or governing body
Resolution / Authorization etc., authorizing their
representative to attend the AGM through

VC / OAVM on their behalf and to vote

through remote e-Voting. The said Resolution /
Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by
e-mail on its registered e-mail address to

tes.scrutinizer@gmail.com with a copy marked to
evoting @nsdl.co.in.

The Company has fixed Thursday, May 27, 2021
as the ‘Record Date’ for determining entitlement
of members to final dividend for the financial
year ended March 31, 2021, if approved at the
AGM.

If the final dividend, as recommended by the
Board of Directors, is approved at the AGM,

payment of such dividend subject to deduction
of tax at source will be made on Monday, June
14, 2021 as under:

i. To all Beneficial Owners in respect of
shares held in dematerialized form as per
the data as may be made available by the
National Securities Depository Limited
(“NSDL”) and the Central Depository
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”),
collectively “Depositories”, as of end of day
on Thursday, May 27, 2021;

i. To all Members in respect of shares held
in physical form after giving effect to valid
transmission or transposition requests
lodged with the Company as of the close of
business hours on Thursday, May 27, 2021.

As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing
Regulations, as amended, securities of

listed companies can be transferred only in
dematerialized form with effect from,

April 1, 2019, except in case of request
received for transmission or transposition and
relodged transfers of securities. Further, SEBI
vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/RTAMB/
CIR/P/2020/236 dated December 2, 2020
had fixed March 31, 2021 as the cut-off date
for re-lodgement of transfer deeds and the

Notice | 36
shares that are re-lodged for transfer shall be
issued only in demat mode. In view of this and
to eliminate all risks associated with physical
shares and for ease of portfolio management,
members holding shares in physical form are
requested to consider converting their holdings
to dematerialized form. Members can contact
the Company or Company’s Registrars and
Transfer Agents, TSR Darashaw Consultants
Private Limited (“TCPL”) for assistance in this
regard. Members may also refer to Frequently
Asked Questions (“FAQs”) on Company’s

website https:/on.tcs.com/demat-faq.

Members who have not yet registered their
e-mail addresses are requested to register the
same with their Depository Participants (“DP”)
in case the shares are held by them in electronic
form and with TCPL in case the shares are held
by them in physical form.

Members are requested to intimate changes,

if any, pertaining to their name, postal address,
e-mail address, telephone / mobile numbers,
Permanent Account Number (PAN), mandates,
nominations, power of attorney, etc., to their
DPs if the shares are held by them in electronic
form and to TCPL if the shares are held by them
in physical form.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

To register e-mail address for all future
correspondence and update the bank account
details, please follow the below process:

 

Physical | Send a request to TCPL at

Holding | csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in:

i} To register e-mail address, please provide
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned
copy of the share certificate (front and
back}, PAN and AADHAR (self-attested
scanned copy of both PAN card and
Aadhar card}

i} To update bank account details, please
send the following additional documents
7 information followed by the hard
copies:
a} Name of the bank and branch
address,

b} Type of bank account Le., savings or
current,

c} Bank account no. allotted after
implementation of core banking
solutions,

d} — 9-digit MICR code no., and

e} — 11-digit IFSC code

f} Original cancelled cheque bearing
the name of the first shareholder,
failing which a copy of the bank

passbook / statement attested by a
bank

 

Demat | Please contact your DP and follow the process
Holding | advised by your DP.

 

 

 

 

10. In compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars

and SEBI Circulars, Notice of the AGM along
with the Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

is being sent by electronic mode to those
Members whose e-mail addresses are registered
with the Company / Depositories.

Process for registration of e-mail id for
obtaining Notice of the AGM along with
Integrated Annual Report.

If your e-mail address is not registered with
the Depositories (if shares held in electronic
form) / Company (if shares held in physical
form), you may register on or before

5:00 p.m. (IST) on Thursday, June 3, 2021
to receive the Notice of the AGM along with
the Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 by
completing the process as under:

a. Visit the link https:/tcpllinkintime.co.in/
EmailReg/Email_Register.html

b. Select the name of the Company from
dropdown

c. Enter details in respective fields such as
DP ID and Client ID (if shares held in
electronic form) / Folio no. and Certificate
no. (if shares held in physical form),
Shareholder name, PAN, mobile no. and
e-mail id.

Notice | 37
d. System will send OTP on mobile no. and
e-mail id.

e. Enter OTP received on mobile no. and
e-mail id.

Members may note that the Notice and
Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 will
also be available on the Company's website
www.tcs.com, websites of the Stock
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and

National Stock Exchange of India Limited
at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com
respectively, and on the website of NSDL

https:/www.evoting.nsdl.com.

 

11. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act,

the facility for making nomination is available
for the Members in respect of the shares held
by them. Members who have not yet registered
their nomination are requested to register the
same by submitting Form No. SH-13. The said
form can be downloaded from the Company's
website https:/on.tcs.com/form-sh-13.
Members are requested to submit the said
details to their DP in case the shares are held by
them in electronic form and to TCPL in case the
shares are held in physical form.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

12.

13.

14.

Members holding shares in physical form, in
identical order of names, in more than one folio
are requested to send to the Company or TCPL,
the details of such folios together with the share
certificates for consolidating their holdings in
one folio. A consolidated share certificate will be
issued to such Members after making requisite
changes.

In case of joint holders, the Member whose
name appears as the first holder in the order
of names as per the Register of Members of
the Company will be entitled to vote during the
AGM.

Members seeking any information with regard
to the financial statements or any matter to be
placed at the AGM, are requested to write to the
Company on or before June 9, 2021 through
e-mail on investor.relations@tcs.com. The same
will be replied by the Company suitably.

. Members are requested to note that, dividends

if not encashed for a period of 7 years from the
date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account

of the Company, are liable to be transferred to
the Investor Education and Protection Fund
(“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in respect of
which dividend has remained unclaimed for

7 consecutive years or more from the date of
transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also

be transferred to IEPF Authority. In view of this,
Members are requested to claim their dividends
from the Company, within the stipulated
timeline. The Members, whose unclaimed
dividends / shares have been transferred to
IEPF, may claim the same by making an online
application to the IEPF Authority in web Form
No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in. For
details, please refer to corporate governance
report which ts a part of this Integrated Annual
Report and FAQ of investor page on Company’s

website https:/on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.

. Members attending the meeting through

VC / OAVM shall be counted for the purpose
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of
the Act.

. Pursuant to Finance Act 2020, dividend income

is taxable in the hands of shareholders wef.
April 1, 2020 and the Company is required

to deduct tax at source from dividend paid

to shareholders at the prescribed rates. For
the prescribed rates for various categories,
please refer to the Finance Act, 2020 and the
amendments thereof. The shareholders are
requested to update their PAN with the DP

(if shares held in electronic form) and Company
/ TCPL (if shares held in physical form).

Notice | 38
A Resident individual shareholder with

PAN and who is not liable to pay income tax
can submit a yearly declaration in Form

No. 15G/ 15H, to avail the benefit of
non-deduction of tax at source by e-mail to
TCSExemptforms2021@tcplindia.co.in by
11:59 p.m. IST on May 25, 2021. Shareholders
are requested to note that in case their PAN

is not registered, the tax will be deducted at a
higher rate of 20%.

 

Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign
Institutional Investors (Flls) / Foreign Portfolio
Investors(FPls)] can avail beneficial rates under
tax treaty between India and their country of
tax residence, subject to providing necessary
documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment
and Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax
Residency Certificate, Form 10F, any other
document which may be required to avail

the tax treaty benefits. For this purpose the
shareholder may submit the above documents
(PDF / JPG Format) by e-mail to
TCSExemptforms202 1 @tcplindia.co.in.

 

The aforesaid declarations and documents need

to be submitted by the shareholders by
11:59 p.m. IST on May 25, 2021.

For further details and formats of declaration,
please refer to FAQs on Taxation of Dividend

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

18.

Distribution available on the Company's website

at https:/on.tcs.comAR-FAQ.

Instructions for e-Voting and joining the AGM
are as follows:

VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS

i. In compliance with the provisions of
Section 108 of the Act, read with
Rule 20 of the Companies (Management
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as
amended from time to time,
Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing
Regulations and in terms of SEBI vide
circular no. SEBIAHO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9,
2020 in relation to e-Voting Facility
Provided by Listed Entities, the Members
are provided with the facility to cast their

vote electronically, through the e-Voting iv.

services provided by NSDL, on all the
resolutions set forth in this Notice. The
instructions for e-Voting are given herein
below.

i. The remote e-Voting period commences
on Monday, June 7, 2021 (9:00 a.m.
IST) and ends on Wednesday, June 9, v.
2021 (5:00 p.m. IST). During this period,
Members holding shares either in physical

form or in dematerialized form, as on
Thursday, June 3, 2021 i.e. cut-off date,
may cast their vote electronically. The
e-Voting module shall be disabled by NSDL
for voting thereafter. Members have the
option to cast their vote on any of the
resolutions using the remote e-Voting
facility either during the period commences
June 7, 2021 to June 9, 2021 or e-Voting
during the AGM. Members who have voted
on some of the resolutions during the said
voting period are also eligible to vote on
the remaining resolutions during the AGM.

The Members who have cast their vote by
remote e-Voting prior to the AGM may
attend / participate in the AGM through
VC / OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast
their vote on such resolution again.

The Board of Directors have appointed
PN Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327)
and failing him Jigyasa Ved (Membership
No. FCS 6488) of Parikh & Associates,
Practicing Company Secretaries as the
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-Voting
process in a fair and transparent manner.

The voting rights of Members shall be in
proportion to their shares in the paid-up

Notice | 39
vi

equity share capital of the Company as on vil.

the cut-off date.

Any person holding shares in physical

form and non-individual shareholders,
who acquires shares of the Company and
becomes a Member of the Company after
sending of the Notice and holding shares
as of the cut-off date, may obtain the login
ID and password by sending a request at
evoting@nsdl.co.in. However, if he / she is
already registered with NSDL for remote )
e-Voting then he /she can use his / her
existing User ID and password for casting
the vote.

In case of Individual Shareholders holding
securities in demat mode and who acquires
shares of the Company and becomes a
Member of the Company after sending of
the Notice and holding shares as of the
cut-off date may follow steps mentioned
below under “Login method for remote
e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for
Individual shareholders holding securities
in demat mode.”

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The details of the process and manner
for remote e-Voting are explained herein
below:

Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system

Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and
join virtual meeting on NSDL e-Voting
system.

Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:

Login method for remote e-Voting and
joining virtual meeting for Individual
shareholders holding securities in demat
mode.

Pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated
December 9, 2020 on “e-Voting facility
provided by Listed Companies”, e-Voting
process has been enabled to all the
individual demat account holders, by way of
single login credential, through their demat
accounts / websites of Depositories / DPs
in order to increase the efficiency of the

voting process. Individual demat account
holders would be able to cast their vote
without having to register again with the
e-Voting service provider (ESP) thereby not
only facilitating seamless authentication but
also ease and convenience of participating
in e-Voting process.

Shareholders are advised to update their
mobile number and e-mail ID with their
DPs in order to access e-Voting facility.

Notice | 40
 

 

Type of shareholders | Login Method

Type of shareholders

Login Method

 

 

Shareholders holding
securities in demat
mode with NSDL

 

 

Individual A.

RP

NSDL IDeAS facility
If you are already registered, follow the below steps:

Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser

by typing the following URL: https:/eservices.nsdl.com/
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.

Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click
on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is
available under “IDeAS” section.

Anew screen will open. You will have to enter your User
ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will
be able to see e-Voting services.

Click on “Access to e-Voting” appearing on the left hand
side under e-Voting services and you will be able to see
e- Voting page.

Click on options available against company name or
e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be
re-directed to NSDL e-Voting website for casting your
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual
meeting and e-Voting during the meeting.

If you are not registered, follow the below steps:
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.

com.

Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at
https:/eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/ldeasDirectRegjsp

 

Please follow steps given in points 1-5.
e-Voting website of NSDL

Open web browser by typing the following
URL: https:/Avww.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal

computer or on a mobile phone.

Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched,
click on the icon “Login” which is available under
‘Shareholder/Member' section.

3.

A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User
ID (Le. your sixteen digit demat account number held
with NSDL), Password / OTP and a Verification Code as
shown on the screen.

After successful authentication, you will be redirected to
NSDL website wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click
on options available against company name or e-Voting
service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during
the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting
and e-Voting during the meeting.

 

 

Individual
Shareholders holding
securities in demat
mode with CDSL

 

Existing users who have opted for Easi / Easiest, can
login through their user id and password. Option will

be made available to reach e-Voting page without any
further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi
/ Easiest is https:/Aveb.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login
or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi.

 

After successful login of Easi / Easiest the user will be
also able to see the e-Voting Menu. The Menu will have
links of ESP i.e. NSDL portal. Click on NSDL to cast your
vote.

If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to
register is available at
https:/Aveb.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/
EasiRegistration. Alternatively, the user can directly
access e-Voting page by providing demat Account
Number and PAN from a link in www.cdslindia.com home
page. The system will authenticate the user by sending
OTP on registered Mobile and e-mail as recorded in the
demat Account. After successful authentication, user will
be provided links for the respective ESP i.e. NSDL where
the e-Voting is in progress.

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Notice | 41
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Type of shareholders | Login Method Il) Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for .
Individual 1. You canalso login using the login credentials of your shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities in
Shareholders demat account through your DP registered with NSDL / demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
(holding securities CDSL for e-Voting facility. How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
in demat mode) 2. Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-Voting option Se - : :
logging through : Once vou click on -Votina option. vou will be redirected 1. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the
their depository ¥ LING OPTION. ¥ following URL: https:/www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal
to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after successful computer or on a mobile.
Participants authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature.
: : : : 2. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon
3. Click on options available against company name or “Login” which ts available under “Shareholders / Member” section.
e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 3. Anew screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual Password / OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
meeting and e-Voting during the meeting. 4. Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password log-in at https:/eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once
are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password option available at you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on
respective websites. e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. cast your vote electronically.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode 5. Your User ID details are given below:
forany technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and Manner of holding shares | Your User ID is:
* i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL)
, , or Physical
Login type Helpdesk details

 

a} | For Members who
hold shares in demat
account with NSDL.

8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID

For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******

Securities held with
NSDL

Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no. 1800 1020 990
and 1800 22 44 30

 

 

b} For Members who
hold shares in demat
account with CDSL.

16 Digit Beneficiary ID

For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12***********"** then

your user ID is 12° rete

c} ForMembers holding | EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with
shares in Physical the company

Form. For example, if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is
001*** then user ID is 123456001***

Securities held with
CDSL

Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at

helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at
022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Notice | 42
6. Your password details are given below:

a)

If you are already registered for
e-Voting, then you can use your
existing password to login and cast
your vote.

If you are using NSDL e-Voting system
for the first time, you will need to
retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was
communicated to you by NSDL. Once
you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and
the system will force you to change
your password.

How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?

i) If your e-mail ID is registered in
your demat account or with the
company, your ‘initial password’
is communicated to you on your
e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to
you from NSDL in your mailbox
from evoting@nsdl.com. Open the
e-mail and open the attachment
i.e. a .pdf fileOpen the .pdf file.
The password to open the .pdf file
is your 8-digit client ID for NSDL
account, last 8 digits of client ID
for CDSL account or folio number

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

for shares held in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your ‘User
ID’ and your ‘initial password’,

ii) In case you have not registered
your e-mail address with the
Company / Depository, please
follow instructions mentioned
below in this notice.

If you are unable to retrieve or have not
received the ‘initial password’ or have
forgotten your password:

a) Click on “Forgot User Details /
Password?” (If you are holding shares
in your demat account with NSDL or
CDSL) option available on

www.evoting.nsdl.com.

b) “Physical User Reset Password?”
(If you are holding shares in physical
mode) option available on

www.evoting.nsdl.com.

c) If you are still unable to get the
password by aforesaid two options,
you can send a request at
evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your
demat account number / folio number,
your PAN, your name and your
registered address.

d) Members can also use the one-time
password (OTP) based login for casting
the votes on the e-Voting system of
NSDL.

8. After entering your password, click on
Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by
selecting on the check box.

9. Now, you will have to click on “Login”
button.

10. After you click on the “Login” button,
Home page of e-Voting will open.

Details on Step 2 are mentioned below:

How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL
e-Voting system?

1. After successful login at Step 1, you will be
able to see all the companies “EVEN” in
which you are holding shares and whose
voting cycle and General Meeting is in
active status.

2. Select “EVEN 115987” of company for
which you wish to cast your vote during
the remote e- Voting period and casting
your vote during the General Meeting. For
joining virtual meeting, you need to click
on “VC/OAVM" link placed under “Join
General Meeting”.

Notice | 43
3. Now you are ready for e-Voting as the
Voting page opens.

4. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify / modify
the number of shares for which you wish
to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and
also “Confirm” when prompted.

5. Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast
successfully” will be displayed and you will
receive a confirmation by way of a SMS
on your registered mobile number from
depository.

6. You can also take the printout of the votes
cast by you by clicking on the print option
on the confirmation page.

7. Once you confirm your vote on the
resolution, you will not be allowed to
modify your vote.

General Guidelines for shareholders

1. It is strongly recommended not to share
your password with any other person and
take Utmost care to keep your password
confidential. Login to the e-Voting website
will be disabled upon five unsuccessful
attempts to key in the correct password.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

In such an event, you will need to go
through the “Forgot User Details/
Password?” or “Physical User Reset
Password?” option available on

https:/Awww.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the

password.

In case of any queries relating to

e-Voting you may refer to the FAQs for
Shareholders and e-Voting user manual
for Shareholders available at the download
section of https:/www.evoting.nsdl.com
or call on toll free no.: 1800 1020 990
and 1800 22 44 30 or send a request at

evoting@nsdl.co.in.

Members may send a request to
evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user id and
password for e-voting by providing demat
account number / Folio number, client
master or copy of Consolidated Account
statement, PAN (self attested scanned
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested
scanned copy of Aadhar Card). If you are an
Individual shareholders holding securities in
demat mode, you are requested to refer to
the login method explained above.

The instructions for members for e-Voting
on the day of the AGM are mentioned in
point number 18 (A).

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR
ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH
VC / OAVM ARE AS UNDER:

1.

Members will be able to attend the

AGM through VC / OAVM or view the live
webcast of the AGM provided by NSDL at
https:/www.evoting.nsdl.com following the
steps mentioned above for access to NSDL
e-Voting system. After successful login,
you can see link of VC / OAVM placed
under Join General meeting menu against
company name. You are requested to click
on VC / OAVM link placed under Join
General Meeting menu.

Members who do not have the User ID and
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten
the User ID and Password may retrieve the
same by following the remote e-Voting
instructions mentioned in the Notice.
Further, Members can also use the OTP
based login for logging into the e-Voting
system of NSDL.

Facility of joining the AGM through
VC / OAVM shall open 30 minutes before
the time scheduled for the AGM.

Notice | 44
Members who need assistance before
or during the AGM, can contact NSDL
on evoting@nsdl.co.in / 1800 1020 990
and 1800 22 44 30 or contact

Amit Vishal, Senior Manager — NSDL at
amitv@nsdl.co.in/ or Sagar Ghosalkar,
Assistant Manager- NSDL at

sagar.ghosalkar@nsdl.co.in.

Members who would like to express their
views or ask questions during the AGM may
register themselves as a speaker by sending
their request from their registered e-mail
address mentioning their name, DP ID

and Client ID / folio number, PAN, mobile
number at tcsagm.speakers@tcs.com from
June 4, 2021 (9:00 a.m. IST) to June 6,
2021 (5:00 p.m. IST). Those Members who
have registered themselves as a speaker will
only be allowed to express their views / ask
questions during the AGM. The Company
reserves the right to restrict the number

of speakers depending on the availability of
time for the AGM.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

1.

Other Instructions

The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the
conclusion of voting at the AGM, unblock
the votes cast through remote e-Voting
(votes cast during the AGM and votes

cast through remote e-Voting) and make,
not later than 48 hours of conclusion

of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s
Report of the total votes cast in favour or
against, if any, to the Chairman or a person
authorised by him in writing, who shall
countersign the same.

The result declared along with the
Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the
Company’s website www.tcs.com and on
the website of NSDL https:/www.evoting.
nsdl.com / immediately. The Company
shall simultaneously forward the results to
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
and BSE Limited, where the shares of the
Company are listed.

By Order of the Board of Directors

Rajendra Moholkar
Company Secretary
Membership No. ACS 8644

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Registered Office:

9” Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point,
Mumbai 400 021

CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781

Tel: 91 22 6778 9595

E-mail: investorrelations@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com

Notice | 45
Details of Directors seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting

Annexure to the Notice

 

Particulars

N Chandrasekaran

 

DIN

00121863

 

 

 

 

Particulars N Chandrasekaran
DIN 00121863
Date of Birth June 2, 1963 (57 years)

 

Date of Appointment

February 21, 2017

 

Qualifications

Bachelor's Degree - Applied Science

Master's Degree - Computer Applications

 

Expertise in specific
functional areas

Rich experience in various areas of business, technology,
operations, societal and governance matters

 

Directorships held in
other companies

 

 

Tata Sons Private Limited

Tata Steel Limited

Tata Motors Limited

The Indian Hotels Company Limited
The Tata Power Company Limited
Tata Consumer Products Limited
TCS Foundation

Tata Chemicals Limited

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Memberships /
Chairmanships of
committees of other
companies

Tata Sons Private Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
© Corporate Social Responsibility Committee*
Tata Steel Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
° Executive Committee of the Board*

Tata Motors Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Indian Hotels Company Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Tata Power Company Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
° Executive Committee of the Board*

Tata Consumer Products Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Tata Chemicals Limited

° Nomination and Remuneration Committee

 

Number of shares held in

 

the Company

 

177,056

 

 

*Chairman of the Committee

For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the
year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors and key managerial
personnel in respect of above directors, please refer to the corporate governance

report which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.

a

Notice | 46
Directors’ To the Members,

) The Directors present the Integrated Annual Report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or
epo rt TCS) along with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2021. The consolidated
performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.

1. Financial results
(® crore)

Revenue from tions 135,963 131,306 164,177 156,949
Other income 5,400 8,082 3,134 4,592
Total income 141,363 139,388 167,311 161,541

Operati nditure 95,653 93,953 117,631 114,840
De iation and amortisation 3,053 2,701 4,065 3,529
Total 98,706 96,654 121,696 118,369
Profit before finance costs, exceptional item and tax 42.657 42,734 45.615 43,172
Finance costs 537 743 637 924
Profit before litem and tax 42,120 41,991 44,978 42,248
item

Provision towards | claim 1,218 = 1,218 =
Profit before tax 40,902 41,991 43,760 42,248
Tax 9,942 8,731 11,198 9,801
Profit for the 30,960 33,260 32,562 32,447
Attributable to:

Shareholders of the Com 30,960 33,260 32,430 32,340
Non-controlling interests NA NA 132 107
oO balance of retained 71,532 77,159 78,810 85,520
Closing balance of retained ea 70,928 71,532 79,586 78,810

 

IntegratedAmaual Directors’ Report | 47

 
COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic has emerged as a
global challenge, creating disruption across

the world. Global solutions are needed to
overcome the challenges — businesses &
business models have transformed to create a
new work order. The swift transition to remote
working was facilitated by the Secure Borderless
Workspaces™ model adopted by the Company.

The physical and emotional wellbeing of
employees continues to be a top priority

for the Company, with several initiatives to
support employees and their families during the
pandemic. The Company has invested in setting
up medical helplines, ambulance services and
first line Covid Care Centers within

TCS premises, and has also extended counselling
and self-help services providing mental &
emotional support to employees. The Company
has reimagined employee engagement, which
transcends geographic barriers by embracing
virtual technologies and embraces our diverse
workforce. Initiatives like the #OneTCS channel,
designed to reduce stress and the feeling of
isolation, hosted inspirational leaders, mental
health experts, virtual town halls and a global
talent hunt competition to boost morale of
employees.

*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The SBWS™ model has been institutionalized
and the Company has been able to seamlessly
adapt and extend it to prospect for new
business, sell, contract and execute programs.
This transformative model enables remote
access for employees, sets up a suitable
cybersecurity framework and all project
management practices and systems needed to
ensure that work allocation, monitoring and
reporting continues without disruption. In this
way, the SBWS™ model ensured that neither
the quality nor the timeliness of client deliveries
was ever compromised. SBWS™ is not a
short-term response to a crisis, but anew
beginning. These new ways of working

and managing businesses present a great
Opportunity to more than just ‘recover’ from
the consequences of the crisis, but to accelerate
transformation.

The revenue impact of the pandemic played

out broadly along the lines that the Company
had anticipated at the start and affected all
verticals, with the exception of Life Sciences and
Healthcare, with varying levels of impact.

Return of surplus funds to Shareholders

In line with the practice of returning 80 to
100 percent free cash flow to shareholders

and based on the Company’s performance, the
Directors have declared interim dividends of
%23 per equity share involving a cash outflow
of %8,598 crore. The Directors have also
recommended a final dividend of 15 per equity
share, the final dividend on equity shares, if
approved by the Members, would involve a cash
outflow of %5,549 crore. The total dividend for
FY 2021 amounts to %38 per equity share and
would involve a total cash outflow of

14,147 crore, resulting in a dividend payout
of 44.3 percent* of the standalone profits of the
Company.

In addition to the above, the Company bought
back 5,33,33,333 equity shares at a price

of %3,000 per equity share for an aggregate
consideration of 716,000 crore. The offer

size of the buy-back was 19.96 percent and
18.11 percent of the aggregate paid-up

equity share capital and free reserves as per
audited condensed standalone interim financial
statements and audited condensed consolidated
interim financial statements of the Company as
on September 30, 2020, respectively.

The buy-back represented 1.42 percent of the
total issued and paid-up equity share capital

of the Company. The buy-back process was
completed and the shares were extinguished on
January 6, 2021.

Directors’ Report | 48
The shareholder’s payout with respect to
dividend and buy-back including tax on
buy-back (excluding transaction costs, other
incidental and related expenses) aggregated to
33,873 crore, resulting in a payout of

106.1 percent* of the standalone profits

of the Company.

In FY 2020, the Company paid a total dividend
of %73 per equity share, including a special
dividend of 40 per equity share, which resulted
in an outflow of 731,895 crore and a dividend
payout of 95.9 percent of the standalone profits
of the Company.

The Dividend Distribution Policy, in terms

of Regulation 43A of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available on
the Company's website on https:/on.tcs.com/
Dividend.

Transfer to reserves

The closing balance of the retained earnings
of the Company for FY 2021, after all
appropriation and adjustments was

70,928 crore.

*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Company’s performance

On a consolidated basis, the revenue for

FY 2021 was %164,177 crore, higher by

4.6 percent over the previous year’s revenue

of 156,949 crore. The profit after tax (PAT)
attributable to shareholders and non-controlling
interests for FY 2021 and FY 2020 was
33,520 crore® and 32,447 crore, respectively.
The profit after tax (PAT) attributable to
shareholders for FY 2021 and FY 2020 was
33,388 crore* and %32,340 crore, respectively.

On a standalone basis, the revenue for

FY 2021 was %135,963 crore, higher by

3.5 percent over the previous year’s revenue of
%131,306 crore in FY 2020. The profit after tax
(PAT) attributable to shareholders for FY 2021
and FY 2020 was %31,918 crore* and

33,260 crore, respectively.

Human resource development

In this extraordinary year, TCS continued to
stay focused on the health and wellbeing of its
associates through multiple measures. Some

of these included the setting up of first line
Covid Care Centres at TCS premises, hospital
admission assistance, home healthcare services,
availability of OHC doctors round the clock, tele
medicine and repatriation of onsite associates

and families through the Vande Bharat Mission.
In addition, TCS took various initiatives to keep
employees productive and engaged, with secure
access and the latest collaboration tools. Virtual
HR days, daily check-in calls to associates,
increased connect sessions with leaders,
counselling services and other initiatives focused
on improving the employees’ resilience.

TCS employees, their families and other
stakeholders highly appreciated these steps.

This year the Company's Learning Intensity has
increased significantly, by almost 37%.

The Company launched TCS Elevate, a
merit-based talent framework to bring further
tighter linkage between learning and careers,
and to drive a culture of continuous learning
and aspiration for accelerated career paths.
Over 138,000 associates have been
on-boarded to this program.

The Company continued its track record of
pioneering industry-first practices by
embracing online hiring, conducting around
100,000 virtual interviews, and pivoting the
TCS NQT completely to virtual mode.

Over 368K students from 3,100+ colleges
attended the TCS NOT from the safety of their
homes. The Company’s investment in strategic
leadership hiring from top B-schools deepened
with TCS being the highest internship hirer in

Directors’ Report | 49
these top campuses. The Company had a net
addition of 40,185, taking its total associate
count to 488,649.

A digital online onboarding model helped the
Company to effectively integrate associates
hired across the globe. Its diverse workforce
includes 154 nationalities across 46 countries.
The Company is one of the largest employers
of women in the world. Sustained efforts to
improve gender diversity, through focused
hiring, mentoring and coaching women
employees, have resulted in women currently
accounting for 36.5 percent of the workforce.

TCS’ commitment to its employees and its
pioneering and innovative HR initiatives have
won it many awards and accolades from top
Industry bodies such as ATD and Brandon Hall.
The Company's internal associate satisfaction
survey PULSE showed the highest associate
satisfaction and engagement scores in the

last 13 years. This ts also reflected in its LTM
attrition rate of 7.2 percent, which is an industry
benchmark, and its lowest ever.

Quality initiatives

The Company continues to sustain its
commitment to the highest levels of quality,
superior service management, robust

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

information security practices and mature
business continuity management by successfully
completing annual re-certification/surveillance

audits for various industry standards and models.

TCS’ integrated Quality Management System
(\QMS™) continues to enable outstanding
value and experience to its customers. iQMS™
is continually enhanced for emerging service
offerings, new delivery methodologies,
industry best practices and latest technologies.
iQMS™ has been updated with handbooks and
guidelines for Agile methodology.

Agile is a method to accelerate the speed of
delivery in software development. TCS saw

an opportunity to elevate Agile by applying it

to everything an organization does spanning
market research, innovation, product
development, sales, delivery, and support
functions, allowing organization wide delivery
and innovation at high speeds, breaking
departmental barriers and transcending location
constraints. TCS calls this as Enterprise Agile.

In 2017, TCS declared ‘Enterprise Agile by
2020’ as its vision with the goal of transforming
TCS along four dimensions: Workforce,
Workplace & Infrastructure, Service Delivery,
and Internal Processes. Implementation was
accomplished in three waves for (1) IT Services,
(2) Cognitive Business Operations and (3)

Enablement Functions such as HR, Marketing,
Administration, IT Infrastructure, Delivery
Excellence, Internal IT, and Research.

While standard Agile pushes for collaboration
within a physical setting, TCS had to invent

a method to bring agility without the need

for physical co-location of teams.

TCS created the Location Independent Agile™
providing comprehensive blueprints of team
configurations, practices and technology for
collaboration such as Open Agile Collaborative
Workspace (OACW) so that team members
from any part of the world can work together
without location constraints.

By converting Agile into a strategic enterprise
transformation lever, TCS created many
capabilities, including the world’s largest

Agile workforce. TCS has filed five patents in the
Agile space. Today, industry Agile experts and
analysts acknowledge TCS’ leadership in Agile.
TCS handles over 12,000 Agile projects
contributing to 85 percent of IT services
revenue. TCS has also added a key term to

the worldwide agile vocabulary by introducing
the concept of Agility Debt™ - an index that
uniquely measures an organization’s agility.
TCS saw customers who undertook holistic
Agile Transformations growing faster than their
peers, and more than 90 percent of customers

Directors’ Report | 50
acknowledged increased speed-to-value from
their agile adoption.

The Company accomplished the Enterprise
Agile 2020 vision by October 2020 satisfying
all the KPI's that were set, which the Company
believes is first of its kind in the industry.

The Company has 427,000+ Agile Ready
workforce with 86 percent of them functioning
as Practitioners in client projects.

The Company's AgiltyDebt™ stands below

0.25 and more than 70 percent of new projects
getting initiated are following agile methods

Technologies and Investments from ‘Enterprise
Agile’ initiative gave the foundation for Secure

Borderless Workspaces (SBWS™), which is the
backbone for our associates to work remotely

from wherever they feel safe.

To reduce the delivery risks during the
pandemic, the Company had rolled out
Guidelines for “Service Delivery under SBWS™
and the SBWS™ Governance utility. It has been
monitoring the 20,000+ projects across the
globe through digitized dashboards.

The customer-centricity, rigor in operations
and focus on delivery excellence have resulted
in consistent improvements in customer
satisfaction levels in the periodic surveys
conducted by the Company. This is validated by
top rankings in third party surveys as well.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Subsidiary companies

The Company has 50 subsidiaries as on
March 31, 2021. There are no associates or
joint venture companies within the meaning
of Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
(“Act”). There has been no material change in
the nature of the business of the subsidiaries.

e = The Equity stake in Technology
Outsourcing SAC., was sold to Banco
Pichincha Peru on December 1, 2020,
at book value, consequent to which
Technology Outsourcing S.A.C. ceased to
be the subsidiary of the Company.

e In November 2020, TCS entered into
an agreement with Prudential Financial,
Inc.(PFl) to acquire over 1,500 staff and
select assets of Pramerica Systems Ireland
Ltd. (Pramerica), PFl’s subsidiary based
in Letterkenny, Ireland. The intent of the
transaction was for TCS to establish a
new global delivery centre in Ireland to
provide PFI with a range of business and
technology services, while also expanding
TCS nearshore capabilities to provide
the multifunctional, digital services and
solutions to other customers in Ireland,
the UK, Europe and the US. Accordingly,
on December 2, 2020, Tata Consultancy

Services Ireland Limited was incorporated
as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company in Ireland to provide the aforesaid
services.

CMC Americas, Inc., a US based subsidiary
of the Company was voluntarily dissolved
with effect from December 16, 2020 as
CMC Americas Inc. and TCS both provide
similar services. This would also enable
rationalization of the number of entities in
the US.

On January 1, 2021, Tata Consultancy
Services Netherlands BV, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company acquired

100 percent shares of Postbank Systems
AG (PBS), a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank
AG at an estimated transaction value

at a symbolic 1 Euro. PBS is the

full-range captive IT service provider that
provides project management, application
management and infrastructure support
services to Postbank and other subsidiaries
of Deutsche Bank. As a part of transaction,
PBS and its around 1,500 employees
become part of TCS which helped in
deepening the relationship between the
two organizations and add to TCS’ scale

in Germany and strengthen its growth
outlook.

Directors’ Report | 51
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3)
of the Act, a statement containing the
salient features of financial statements of the
Company’s subsidiaries in Form No. AOC-1
is attached to the financial statements of the
Company.

Further, pursuant to the provisions of

Section 136 of the Act, the financial statements
of the Company, consolidated financial
statements along with relevant documents and
separate audited financial statements in respect
of subsidiaries, are available on the Company's

website on https:/Awww.tcs.com/investor-
relations.

Directors’ responsibility statement

Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act,
the Board of Directors, to the best of its
knowledge and ability, confirm that:

i. in the preparation of the annual accounts,
the applicable accounting standards have
been followed and there are no material
departures;

li. they have selected such accounting
policies and applied them consistently and
made judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Company at the end of the financial year
and of the profit of the Company for that
period;

ii, they have taken proper and sufficient
care for the maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and for preventing
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

iv. they have prepared the annual accounts on
a going concern basis;

v. they have laid down internal financial
controls to be followed by the Company
and such internal financial controls are
adequate and operating effectively;

vi. they have devised proper systems to
ensure compliance with the provisions of all
applicable laws and that such systems are
adequate and operating effectively.

Based on the framework of internal financial
controls and compliance systems established
and maintained by the Company, the work
performed by the internal, statutory and
secretarial auditors and external consultants,
including the audit of internal financial controls
over financial reporting by the statutory auditors
and the reviews performed by management and

10.

the relevant board committees, including the
audit committee, the Board is of the opinion

that the Company’s internal financial controls
were adequate and effective during FY 2021.

Directors and key managerial personnel

N. Chandrasekaran retires by rotation and being
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

A resolution seeking shareholders’ approval for
his re-appointment along with other required
details forms part of the Notice.

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149

of the Act, the independent directors have
submitted declarations that each of them meet
the criteria of independence as provided in
Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)}{b) of
the SEBI Listing Regulations. There has been

no change in the circumstances affecting their
status as independent directors of the Company.

During the year under review, the
non-executive directors of the Company had no
pecuniary relationship or transactions with the
Company, other than sitting fees, commission
and reimbursement of expenses, if any.

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of
the Act, Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Executive
Officer and Managing Director, N. Ganapathy
Subramaniam, Chief Operating Officer and

Directors’ Report | 52
11.

Executive Director, Ramakrishnan V., Chief 12.

Financial Officer and Rajendra Moholkar,
Company Secretary are the Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company as on

March 31, 2021.

Ramakrishnan V. has been the Chief Financial
Officer since February 21, 2017. He will be
retiring from the services of the Company
effective April 30, 2021. The Board places
on record its appreciation for his invaluable
contribution and guidance during his tenure
with the Company.

During the year under review, the Board at its
meeting held on October 7, 2020 appointed
Samir Seksaria as the Chief Financial Officer
Designate of the Company to take over from
Ramakrishnan V. as Chief Financial Officer, with
effect from May 1, 2021. Samir Seksaria has
been with TCS since 1999 and has held various
positions in business consulting and finance.

He is a commerce graduate from Narsee Monjee
College, Mumbai and a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India.

Number of meetings of the Board

Seven meetings of the Board were held during
the year. For details of meetings of the Board,
please refer to the Corporate Governance
Report, which is a part of this report.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Board evaluation

The Board of Directors has carried out an
annual evaluation of its own performance, board
committees, and individual directors pursuant
to the provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing
Regulations.

The performance of the board was evaluated

by the Board after seeking inputs from all the
directors on the basis of criteria such as the
board composition and structure, effectiveness
of board processes, information and functioning,
etc.

The performance of the committees was
evaluated by the Board after seeking inputs
from the committee members on the basis of
criteria such as the composition of committees,
effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.

The above criteria are broadly based on the
Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by
the Securities and Exchange Board of India on
January 5, 2017.

In a separate meeting of independent directors,
performance of non-independent directors, the
Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company
was evaluated, taking into account the views of
executive directors and non-executive directors.

13.

The Board and the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reviewed the
performance of individual directors on the
basis of criteria such as the contribution of the
individual director to the board and committee
meetings like preparedness on the issues to
be discussed, meaningful and constructive
contribution and inputs in meetings, etc.

At the board meeting that followed the

meeting of the independent directors and
meeting of Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, the performance of the Board,

its Committees, and individual directors was

also discussed. Performance evaluation of
independent directors was done by the entire
Board, excluding the independent director being
evaluated.

Policy on directors’ appointment and
remuneration and other details

The Company's policy on appointment of
directors is available on the Company’s website

on https:/on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.

The policy on remuneration and other matters
provided in Section 178(3) of the Act has been
disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report,
which is a part of this report and is also available
on the Company’s website on
https:/on.tcs.com/remuneration -policy.

Directors’ Report | 53
14.

15.

16.

Corporate social responsibility

The brief outline of the corporate social
responsibility (CSR) policy of the Company
and the initiatives undertaken by the Company
on CSR activities during the year are set out
in Annexure I of this report in the format
prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. For other
details regarding the CSR Committee, please
refer to the Corporate Governance Report,
which is a part of this report. This Policy is
available on the Company's website on

https:/on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy.

Internal financial control systems and their
adequacy

The details in respect of internal financial
control and their adequacy are included in the
Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a
part of this report.

Audit committee

The details pertaining to the composition of the
Audit Committee are included in the Corporate
Governance Report, which is a part of this
report.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

17.

18.

19.

Auditors

At the twenty-second AGM held on June 16,
2017 the Members approved appointment

of BSR & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No.101248W/W- 100022)
as Statutory Auditors of the Company to

hold office for a period of five years from the
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the
twenty-seventh AGM, subject to ratification of
their appointment by Members at every AGM, if
so required under the Act.

Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report

The statutory auditor’s report and the
secretarial auditor’s report do not contain any
qualifications, reservations, or adverse remarks
or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report is attached
to this report as Annexure Il.

Risk management

The Board of Directors of the Company

has formed a Risk Management Committee
to frame, implement and monitor the risk
management plan for the Company.

The Committee is responsible for monitoring
and reviewing the risk management plan and

ensuring its effectiveness. The Audit Committee
has additional oversight in the area of financial
risks and controls. The major risks identified by
the businesses and functions are systematically
addressed through mitigating actions on

a continuing basis. The development and
implementation of risk management policy has
been covered in the Management Discussion
and Analysis, which forms part of this report.

. Vigil Mechanism

The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy and
has established the necessary vigil mechanism
for directors and employees in confirmation with
Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 22 of
Listing Regulations, to report concerns about
unethical behavior. This Policy is available on

the Company’s website on https://on.tcs.com/
WhistleBP.

. Particulars of loans, guarantees and

investments

The particulars of loans, guarantees and
investments as per Section 186 of the Act
by the Company, have been disclosed in the
financial statements.

Directors’ Report | 54
22. Transactions with related parties a. The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the
Company and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief

None of the transactions with related parties Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the financial year:
fall under the scope of Section 188(1) of the

Act. Accordingly, the disclosure of related party
transactions as required under Section
134(3)(h) of the Act in Form AOC-2 is not

 

applicable to the Company for FY 2020-21 and Non-executive Directors:
hence does not form part of this report. N. Chandrasekaran*
O P Bhatt
23. Annual Return Aarthi Subramanian*
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Khosla
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Hanne Sorensen
Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, the Annual Keki Mi
Return as on March 31, 2021 is available on Don Callahan
the Company's website on https/on.tcs.com/ Executive Directors:
annual-return-20-21. Rajesh inathan
N. Gana Subramaniam
24. Particulars of employees Chief Financial Officer
Ramakrishnan V.
The information under Section 197 of the Act Secreta
read with Rule 5 of the Companies Raj Moholkar
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial

Personnel) Rules, 2014: * Asa policy, N. Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the
Company and hence not stated.

# In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the

Non-Executive Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata
Company and hence not stated.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 55
b. The percentage increase in the median FY 2020 owing to decrease in 25. Integrated Report
remuneration of employees in the financial remuneration of 15 percent in FY 2020 : :
year. (0.03) percent in view of the economic conditions The Company being one of the top companies
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the country in terms of market capitalization,

c. The number of permanent employees on wherein the Directors had decided to has voluntanly provided Integrates Report,
the rolls of Company: 488,649 moderate the executive remuneration for which encompasses both nancial and
oy non-financial information to enable the
FY 2020 to express solidarity and conserve inf .

d. Average percentile increase already made resources. Members to take well in ‘ormed decisions and
in the salaries of employees other than the have a better understanding of the Company s
. . . i ion i jong term perspective. The Report also

managerial personnel in the last financial e. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per : mi persp . , P notion’
. . . . i i . couches upon aspects such as organisation’s
year and its comparison with the percentile the remuneration policy of the Company: P P g
: . . . strategy, governance framework, performance
increase in the managerial remuneration ¢ -
‘ustificati h € and point out if The Company affirms that the and prospects of value creation based on
and justification t ereor and point Our! remuneration is as per the remuneration the six forms of capital viz. financial capital,
there are any exceptional circumstances for policy of the Company. manufactured capital, intellectual capital, human
increase in the managerial remuneration: capital, social and relationship capital and natural
; f. The statement containing names of top capital.
The average annual increase was ten employees in terms of remuneration
5.2 percent in India. However, during the drawn and the particulars of employees 26. Disclosure requirements
course of the year, the total increase is as required under Section 197(12) of _.. .
. . . As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate
approximately 6.4 percent, after accounting the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) : . ;
. . : Governance Report with the Auditors
for promotions and other event based of the Companies (Appointment and : :
: . . : : Certificate thereon, and the integrated
compensation revisions. Employees outside Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) : . e .
. : . . . : : Management Discussion and Analysis including
India received a wage increase varying Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate : wap:
f 3 6 The i formi t of thi t the Business Responsibility Report are attached,
annexure forming part of this report. - :
from percent to - percent. e increase 9 P P which forms part of this report.
in remuneration is in line with the market Further, the report and the accounts are
trends in the respective countries. being sent to the Members excluding the The Company has devised proper systems to
; ; ; aforesaid annexure. In terms of Section ensure compliance with the provisions of all
Increase in the managerial remuneration 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the
for the year was 55.22 percent. Increase for inspection and any Member interested Institute of Company Secretaries of India and
in the managerial remuneration for in obtaining a copy of the same may write that such systems are adequate and operating
FY 2021 is not comparable with to the Company Secretary. effectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 56
27.

28.

Deposits from public

The Company has not accepted any deposits
from public and as such, no amount on account
of principal or interest on deposits from public
was outstanding as on the date of the balance
sheet.

Conservation of energy, technology
absorption, foreign exchange earnings and
outgo

Conservation of energy

The Company saw a year-on-year reduction in
absolute energy use by 46.6 percent in MWh
and an absolute carbon footprint reduction
(across Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 48.8 percent
(in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent).

This reduction was not commensurate to the
extremely low occupancy because some utilities
had to be run to maintain the infrastructure.

TCS’ specific greenhouse gas emissions

(Scope 1 + Scope 2) comes to 0.54 tCO2e/ FTE
(Full Time Equivalent)/Annum in the current
reporting year, a reduction of 53 percent
Y-O-Y. This is estimated with the actual carbon
footprint and a notional FTE (working out of
TCS offices), considering an increase of

8.23 percent in the FTE over the last reporting
year. This increase in FTE, is in line with the
TCS global headcount growth. The specific

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

carbon footprint data is presented for the sake
of continuity and is not comparable with the
earlier year.

The total rooftop solar energy generation
across the campuses increased to 8.1 MWp
contributing to 2.5 percent of total electricity
use in the reporting year. Total renewable
energy used - from rooftop solar power plants
and through power purchase agreements was
45.5 million units amounting to 15.6 percent of
the total electricity consumption.

The Company achieved the target power
utilization efficiency (PUE) of 1.65 across

21 of 23 target data centers. The Company
has also taken up additional 44 data centers for
this initiative and reduced weighted average
PUE of all DCs to 1.77 in reporting year from
2.4 in 2017. The Company has focused on
temporary closure of ODCs and hub rooms
as SBWS™ was approved by customers and all
stakeholders, leading to further reduction in
energy consumption.

The investment in loT based energy
management system helped the Company to
define a new normal of consumption profile,
leveraging cognitive AI/ML algorithms and
monitoring performance against it to drive
efficiency.

Technology absorption, adaption and
innovation

Research & Development (R&D): Specific
areas in which R & D was carried out by the
Company

TCS Research and Innovation (R&l}
commemorated the 40* year of its founding

by adopting a new brand statement “Inventing
for Impact”. In keeping with its purpose-driven
worldview, TCS R&l teams were engaged in

72 COVID related initiatives around the world,
working with local, national and international
bodies, adopting multiple approaches: leveraging
TCS IP, collaborating with partners, and offering
individual consultative inputs across many areas,
such as drug candidate molecule discovery,
COVID data management, diagnostic kits,
epidemiological study and management.

TCS continues to expand its foundational
research, in core computing areas and the
intersections with other sciences. New areas
of focus include DNA computing, Al for protein
design, cognitive robotics, meta materials,
quantum computing and sensing. Research and
Innovation teams worked with cross-functional
teams across the Company on strategic
initiatives such as Patents, Products & Platforms
(3P), Technology Change Management,

5G, Cloud and Cyber Security.

Directors’ Report | 57
TCS R&l continues to build its intellectual
property; more than 240 papers were presented
at conferences or published in journals. The
New Products and Solutions Development
framework that governs the emerging pipeline
of IP, and IP-leveraged offerings continued

to expand the Company’s portfolio with new
offerings like TCS Dynaport™, TCS Consent
Management Solution, and TCS Omnistore™
to support the next wave of growth. Numerous
new technology use cases were piloted for
customers in various industry segments.

The Company's existing portfolio of products
and platforms continued to grow, with new
releases in FY 2021 with additional features
and functionality, and expansion of the ignio™,
TCS ADD and TCS BaNCS™ suites with new
products covering adjacencies.

TCS won Cll’s Industrial Intellectual Property
Awards 2020. R&l won the Business Culture
Award, and several of the Company's products
and platforms won multiple awards across the
world. The Company continued to contribute
to standards bodies especially in ISO SC7 and
Systems Engineering. As of March 31, 2021,
the Company has applied for 5,879 patents
cumulatively and has been granted 1,850
patents.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS continued to foster the culture of
innovation, organizing one crowdsourced
innovation a week. The TCS Innovista
competition attracted over 10,290 entries from
across the organization. The Company set up a
community of Innovation Champions who serve
as innovation ambassadors, helping customers
leverage the best of TCS for their growth and
transformation. Its Co-Innovation Network
(TCS COIN™) initiative continued to expand,
with 67 ongoing projects in emerging
technologies with global academic partners,
and with over 2,400 start-ups in its emerging
technology ecosystem.

The Company’s Pace Ports, which are
experiential spaces connecting customers to all
of TCS’ organizational capabilities in innovation,
technology and industry expertise, hosted
several events and workshops. In FY 2021,
three new PACE Ports, in Pittsburgh, Toronto
and Amsterdam respectively, commenced virtual
operations. The PACE Internship Program was
launched this year in Amsterdam with a batch
of students pursuing Masters in Innovation

& Digitalization from Nyenrode Business
University.

In keeping with the Company’s commitment
to social responsibility and environmental
stewardship, it launched several new initiatives.

The first edition of TCS Sustainathon, a
challenge that aims to inspire students to
envision a sustainable future using technology
to solve real world problems, focused on
reducing food wastage. TCS and the Malaysian
petroleum major PETRONAS launched a
Social Enterprise Education Lab (SEEd.Lab), an
end-to-end incubation program to encourage
entrepreneurship and job creation. TCS and
Auckland Business School partnered to develop
an APAC-Focused Digital Sustainability Index.

Future Course of Action

TCS will continue to scale the Patents, Products
and Platforms strategy across the organization,
harnessing the collective knowledge and
creativity of internal teams and of partners

to deliver innovative solutions in support of

the Company’s pursuit of the growth and
transformation opportunity and longer term
sustainability goals.

Expenditure on R&D

TCS innovation Labs are located in India and
other parts of the world. These R&D centers, as
certified by Department of Scientific & Industrial
Research (DSIR) function from Pune, Chennai,
Bengaluru, Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and
Mumbai.

Directors’ Report | 58
Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers of TCS during FY 2021 and FY 2020 are The Directors thank the Company's employees,
given below: customers, vendors, investors and academic
(® crore) partners for their continuous support.

The Directors also thank the Government
of India, Governments of various states in
India, Governments of various countries and
Recurring concerned Government departments and
Total R&D expenditure (a+b) agencies for their co-operation.

Capital

Innovation center expenditure : -
P The Directors mourn the loss of life due to

COVID-19 pandemic and are deeply grateful

Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d)

 

 

 

R&D and innovation expenditure as a and have immense respect for every person
percentage of total turnover who risked their life and safety to fight this
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo pandemic.
Export revenue constituted 94.0 percent of the total standalone revenue in FY 2021 (93.4 percent in FY The Directors appreciate and value the
2020). contribution made by every member of the
(% crore) TCS family.
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo FY 2021 FY 2020 On behalf of the Board of Directors
a. | Foreign exchange earnings 130,720 128,501
b. | CIF Value of imports 241 569 N. Chandrasekaran
Chairman
c. | Expenditure in foreign currency 54,800 51,748

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mumbai, April 12, 2021
29. Acknowledgements umbal, April ic,

Padma Bhushan Shri. F. C. Kohli, founder and the first CEO of TCS, passed away on November 26, 2020.
The Directors place on record their deep appreciation of his vision, leadership, enormous contribution and
monumental work in laying the foundation of the Indian IT Industry and express a deep gratitude to his
indefatigable, influential spirit for shaping TCS and the fabric of TCS culture.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 59
Annexure |
Annual Report on CSR Activities

1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company

TCS’ vision is to empower communities by connecting people to opportunities in the digital economy and mission is to build inclusive, equitable and sustainable pathways
for all including youth, women and marginalized communities.

By prioritizing TCS’ focus on education, skilling, entrepreneurship and employment it seeks to help people and communities bridge the opportunity gap. The Company
also supports health, wellness, water, sanitation and hygiene needs of communities, especially those that are marginalized. TCS also supports conservation and relief
efforts to communities at the time of natural and man-made disasters. Its focus on preserving art and heritage as well as supporting action against climate change
remains consistent.

By applying Its resources towards communities that need it the most, TCS ensures equitable access. The Company's CSR strategy incorporates an inclusive approach
into the design of every program. In India this is aligned to its support of the Government of India’s Affirmative Action Policy and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action
Program.

To achieve transformational impact, TCS leverages the best of the Company’s capabilities — its intellectual, technology, human and financial capital. TCS aims to create
innovative solutions to societal challenges applying its contextual knowledge while harnessing the expertise of a diverse network of leaders; execute and scale programs
using its technology capabilities; engage its large employee base to volunteer their time, skills and expertise as last-mile connectors and make impact investments in
large scale, sustainable, multi-year programs that empower communities.

The projects undertaken are within the broad framework of Schedule VIl of the Companies Act, 2013. Details of the CSR policy and projects or programs undertaken
by the Company are available on links given below:

https:/on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy

https:/Awww.tcs.com/corporate -social-responsibility

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 60
2. Composition of the CSR committee:

Name of Director

Designation / Nature of Directorship

Number of meetings of CSR

Committee held during the year

Number of meetings of CSR
Ceo Tinliancrmeelnecere Rela lare mR orl m

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 N. Chandrasekaran Chairman, Non-independent Non-Executive Director 4 4
2 O. P. Bhatt Member, Independent, Non-Executive Director 4 4
3 N. Ganapathy Subramaniam Member, Non-Independent, Executive Director 4 4

 

3. Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company

Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is available on the Company’s website on https://(www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.

CSR policy - https:/on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy

CSR projects - https:/Awww.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility

 

 

4. Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility
Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).

TCS has been conducting internal impact assessments to monitor and evaluate its strategic CSR programs. The Company takes cognizance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of
the Companies CSR Policy Rules 2014 and has initiated steps to conduct impact assessment of CSR projects through an independent agency. There are no projects
undertaken or completed after January 22, 2021, for which the impact assessment report is applicable in FY 2021.

5. Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and
amount required for set off for the financial year, if any

Financial Year

Amount available for set-off from preceding financial years {in 2)

PN TSU gst gx Reo TMK TRAM LTB LN UR)

 

NIL

NIL

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Directors’ Report | 61

 
6. Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): 733,153 crore

7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5) : 663 crore
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : NIL
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) : 663 crore

8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

Total Amount Spent for the Amount Unspent (% crore)

ala Tato (cle bE) Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR Account PU g ees Ta het are KOM ONY MUU L a RS eter ce aCe Cot meoxeua(exel 0] (mY

as per Section 135(6) as per second proviso to Section 135(5)

Amount PE ieeRoy mae laicls Name of the Fund Amount PE ieeRoy mae laicls
674 NIL - - NIL

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 62
(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:

 

 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 3) (3) 7) C3) (9) (10) (11)
Sid Elena Item fromthe Local area Location of the project rela Amount Amount spent | Amount transferred to i loteleaod Mode of Implementation - Through
Ny re) aed list of activities (Yes/No) duration allocatedfor inthecurrent Unspent CSRAccount for  Implementa Tay eautearaare PSS)
erat A YE Car Dynes the project financial Year the project as per Section _ tion - Direct Name aoe ero
to the Act (tak¢} (ak4) 135(6) (in 2) (Yes/No) auumabyer
1 | Tata Translational (i) Yes West Bengal | Kolkata 6 years 79 3 - No Tata Medical CSRO0002920
Cancer Research Center Trust
Center
2 BridgelT - (ii) Yes Madhya Satna, Rewa 5 years 6 1 - No Centre for CSRO0004191
CADAM Pradesh Datia, Alternative
(Project 2) Uttar Chhatarpur, Dalit Media
Pradesh Nawada
Bihar Ranchi, Ramgarh

Jharkhand North 24
West Bengal | Parganas

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 BridgelT - DF (ii) Yes Karnataka, Raichur, Yadgir, 5 years 3 1 - No Development | CSROO002377
(Project 2) Odisha Gajapati and Focus
Rayagada
4 BridgelT - DF (ii) No Mizoram, Aizawi, Raichur 5 years 1 -* - No Development | CSROO002377
(Project 1) Karnataka Focus
5 BridgelT - (ii) Yes Haryana, Ambala, 5 years 3 -* - No Centre for CSRO0004191
CADAM Rajasthan Kurukshetra Alternative
(Project 1) Bharatpur, Dalit Media
Dholpur
TOTAL 5

 

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 63
(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:

 

 

 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (3) 1) i)
Sr. Name ofthe Project Item from the list of | Local area Location of the project Pieler end Mode of Mode of implementation - Through
No. activities inschedule — (Yes/ No) for the project implementation - implementing agency
Sa BSeaT Ke} District Core ve Name CSR registration
(Yes/No) number
1 Contribution for (i}, (ii), (iv), (v} Yes Pan India 351 No Tcs CS5RO0002960
Schedule VIl activities Foundation
2 COVID support - (viti} Yes Pan India 256 No PM CARES -
PM CARES Fund Fund
3 COVID support - (i}, (xii} Yes Uttar Pradesh Noida 12 Yes - -
Quarantine centre, Maharashtra Mumbai

supply of disinfectant and
food packets distribution

4 Education and skill (ii} Yes Pan India 7 Yes - -
building projects

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 Digital Nerve Centre {i} Yes Pan India 6 Yes - -

6 COVID support - Food (i}, (xii} Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 5 No Taj Public CS5RO0000540
distribution for frontline Service
healthcare workers Welfare Trust

7 Community (ii} (iii} Yes Pan India 5 Yes - -
transformation projects

8 Hospital Management (} Yes Tamil Nadu Chennai 2 Yes - -
System at Cancer West Bengal Kolkata
Institute and Tata Medical
Centre

i] Centre of Excellence in (ii) (ii} Yes Tamil Nadu Coimbatore 2 No Coimbatore | Registration in progress
Cyber Security Institute of

Technology

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 64
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (3) 1) i)
Sr. Name ofthe Project Item from the list of | Local area Location of the project Pieler end Mode of Mode of implementation - Through
No. activities inschedule — (Yes/ No) for the project implementation - implementing agency
STR State District Cac) Pisa Name CSR registration
(Yes/No) number
10 | Support towards vy Yes Karnataka Bengaluru 1 No Art & Registration in progress
Museum of Art & Photography
Photography Foundation
11° | Adult Literacy Program (ii) Yes Madhya Ujjain, Allahabad, -* No Humana CSRO0000929
Pradesh Jaipur, Dausa People To
Uttar Pradesh Mewat People India
Rajasthan
Haryana
12 | Impact India Foundation (i) Yes Maharashtra Mumbai -* Yes - -
13 | Infrastructure support to (} Yes Maharashtra Mumbai -* No Society for CSRO0003225
Hospital Rehabilitation
of Crippled
Children
14 | Restoration and (iv) Yes Tamil Nadu Chengalpattu -* Yes - -
rejuvenation of Siruseri
Lake
15 | Andhra Pradesh Social (ii} Yes Andhra Pradesh | Ananthapur, -* Yes - -
Welfare Residential Vizianagaram,
Educational Institutions Srikakulam,
Society (APSWREIS} Kadapa, Guntur
- Student Digital
Innovation Program golT
16 | Scholarship program (ii) Yes Madhya Chhindwara -* No NIT CSROOO00621
Pradesh Foundation
17 | Holistic empowerment of (ii) Yes Tamil Nadu Chennai -* No Ramana Registration in progress
differently abled children Sunritya
Aalaya Trust

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Directors’ Report | 65
(2) (3) (4) (5) (3) 1) i)

Name of the Project

Local area
(Yes/ No)

irom Uuee Role
activities in schedule
VII to the Act

Mode of
Tea) ed Claatelare-1 Ce) te
Direct
(Yes/No)

Location of the project Pieler end
iceY me new ne) ered

[Caeneles)|

Mode of implementation - Through
implementing agency

BSeaT Ke} District Name CSR registration

   

  

number

 

 

 

Jal Jeevan Mission {i} Himachal, Shimla, Tehri, Tata CSRO0002739
Uttarakhand, Grehwal, Community
Maharashtra, Dehradun, Initiatives
Rajasthan, Nashik, Sirohi, Trust
Jharkhand, Hazaribag,
Guajrat, Sikkim, | Dahod, South
Manipur, Goa Sikkim, Imphal
East, Imphal
West, North and
South Goa
19 | Archaeometallurgical vy Yes Tamil Nadu Keeladi, -* No National Registration in progress
insights on ancient Kodumanal, Institute of
excavations Adichanallur Advanced
Studies
TOTAL 647

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Represents value less that 70.50 crore.

# Jal Jeevan Mission project is being jointly implemented with Tata Community Initiatives Trust, CSR reg. no. - CSROO002739

d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: %22 crore

Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL

Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e) : 7674 crore
Excess amount for set off, if any

2

Soares

a

Two percent of ave net profit of the C Section 135(5 663
Total amount for the Financial Year 674
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i 11
Surplus arising out of the CSR | or
Amount available for set off in succeedi

rammes or activities of the previous financial years, if a NIL
financial rs [(ii)-{iv’ 11

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 66
9. (a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:

 

 

 

1

 

NIL

 

 

 

 

NIL

 

 

 

(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 TTCRC Tata Translational Cancer FY 2016 6 years 79 A7 Ongoing
Research Centre
2 BridgelT BridgelT - CADAM (Project 2} FY 2020 5 years 6 2 Ongoing
3 BridgelT - DF (Project 2) FY 2020 5 years 3 1 Ongoing
4 BridgelT - DF (Project 1) FY 2018 5 years 1 1 Ongoing
5 BridgelT - CADAM (Project 1) FY 2018 5 years 3 2 Ongoing
6 BridgelT - Humana FY 2020 5 years 1 -* Ongoing
7 IT Setting up of IIIT at Guwahati, FY 2014 Open 29 16 Ongoing
Vadodara, Srirangam, Ranchi ended
and Nagpur in PPP mode
TOTAL

 

 

 

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Directors’ Report | 67
10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year
{asset-wise details)

(a) Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s) : None

(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset : NIL

(c) Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address etc. : Not Applicable
(d) Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset) : Not Applicable

11. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per Section 135(5) : Not Applicable

Rajesh Gopinathan N. Chandrasekaran

Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Directors’ Report | 68
Form No. MR-3
Secretarial Audit Report

for the financial year ended March 31, 2021

Annexure Il

[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited

We have conducted the secretarial audit of the
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and
the adherence to good corporate practices by Tata
Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter called
“the Company’). Secretarial Audit was conducted
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis
for evaluating the corporate conducts/ statutory
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.

Based on our verification of the Company’s books,
Papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and
other records maintained by the Company, to the
extent the information provided by the Company, its
officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of secretarial audit, the explanations
and clarifications given to us and the representations
made by the Management and considering the
relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19
pandemic, we hereby report that in our opinion, the
Company has during the audit period covering the
financial year ended on March 31, 2021, generally
complied with the statutory provisions listed
hereunder and also that the Company has proper
Board processes and compliance mechanism in place
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the
reporting made hereinafter:

We have examined the books, papers, minute books,
forms and returns filed and other records made
available to us and maintained by the Company

for the financial year ended on March 31, 2021
according to the applicable provisions of:

(.) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the
rules made thereunder;

(ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

(ii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and
the rules and regulations made thereunder
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment,
Overseas Direct Investment and External
Commercial Borrowings;

(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):

(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;

(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
2015;

(c) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and
amendments from time to time;

Directors’ Report | 69
(d) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Share Based Employee Benefits)
Regulations, 2014; (Not applicable to the
Company during the audit period)

(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
Regulations, 2008; (Not applicable to the
Company during the audit period)

(f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer
Agents)Regulations, 1993 regarding the
Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not
applicable to the Company during the audit
period)

(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations,
2009; (Not applicable to the Company
during the audit period) and

(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;

(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the
Company namely:-

(a) Information Technology Act, 2000 and the
rules made thereunder;

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(b) Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the
rules made thereunder;

(c) Software Technology Parks of India rules
and regulations

(d) The Indian Copyright Act, 1957
(e) The Patents Act, 1970
(f) The Trade Marks Act, 1999

We have also examined compliance with the
applicable clauses of the following:

(i) Secretarial Standards issued by The
Institute of Company Secretaries of
India with respect to board and general
meetings.

(i) The Listing Agreements entered into by the
Company with National Stock Exchange of
India Limited and BSE Limited read with the
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

During the period under review, the Company has
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules,
Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned
above.

We further report that:

The Board of Directors of the Company is duly
constituted with proper balance of Executive
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent
Directors. There were no changes in the composition
of the Board of Directors that took place during the
period under review.

Adequate notice was given to all directors to
schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed
notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in
advance for meetings other than those held at
shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and
obtaining further information and clarifications

on the agenda items before the meeting and for
meaningful participation at the meeting.

As per the minutes, the decisions at the Board
Meetings were taken unanimously.

We further report that there are adequate systems
and processes in the Company commensurate with
the size and operations of the Company to monitor
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
regulations and guidelines etc.

We further report that during the audit period the
following events occurred which had bearing on the
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc.

Directors’ Report | 70
1. The Company has completed buyback of ‘Annexure A’ 4. Wherever required, we have obtained the

5,33,33,333 (Five crore thirty three lakh thirty

Management Representation about the

three thousand three hundred and thirty three) To, Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and
fully paid-up equity shares of face value of The Members happening of events etc.
%1 (Rupee One) each (“Equity Shares”), on a Tata Consultancy Services Limited
proportionate basis, through the Tender Offer 5. The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate
route through the Stock Our report of even date is to be read along with this and other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
Exchange mechanism as prescribed under the letter. standards is the responsibility of management.
Securities and Exchange Board Our examination was limited to the verification
of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the of procedure on test basis.
2018, at a price of 73,000 (Rupees responsibility of the management of the
Three Thousand only). Company. Our responsibility is to express an 6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an
opinion on these secretarial records based on assurance as to the future viability of the
For Parikh & Associates our audit. Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness
Company Secretaries with which the management has conducted the
2. We have followed the audit practices and affairs of the Company.
P.N. Parikh process as were appropriate to obtain
Partner reasonable assurance about the correctness For Parikh & Associates
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 of the contents of the secretarial records. The Company Secretaries
verification was done on test basis to ensure
Place: Mumbai that correct facts are reflected in secretarial P. N. Parikh
Date: April 12, 2021 UDIN: FO00327C000063984 records. We believe that the process and Partner
practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date for our opinion.
which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral Place: Mumbai
part of this report. 3. We have not verified the correctness and Date: April 12, 2021 UDIN: FO00327C000063984
appropriateness of financial records and Books
of Accounts of the Company. «\

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Directors’ Report | 71
Corporate
Governance
Report

Company’s Philosophy on Corporate
Governance

Effective corporate governance practices
constitute the strong foundation on which
successful commercial enterprises are built to
last. The Company’s philosophy on corporate
governance oversees business strategies and
ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate
behaviour and fairness to all stakeholders
comprising regulators, employees, customers,
vendors, investors and the society at large.

Strong leadership and effective corporate
governance practices have been the Company's
hallmark inherited from the Tata culture and
ethos,

The Company follows the Tata Group philosophy
of building sustainable businesses that are
rooted in the community and demonstrate care
for the environment. Being a part of the Tata
Group, which epitomizes sustainability, TCS has
inherited a strong legacy of fair and transparent
ethical governance, as embodied in the Tata
Code of Conduct (TCoC).

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct
for its employees including the Managing
Director and the Executive Directors.

 

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of
Conduct for its non-executive directors which
includes Code of Conduct for Independent
Directors that suitably incorporates the duties
of independent directors as laid down in the
Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act”).

The Company's corporate governance
philosophy has been further strengthened
through the Tata Business Excellence Model, the
TCS Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider
Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure
Practices (“Insider Trading Code”). The Company
has in place an Information Security Policy that
ensures proper utilization of IT resources.

The Company is in compliance with the
requirements stipulated under Regulation

17 to 27 read with Schedule V and clauses

(b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation

46 of Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing
Regulations”), as applicable, with regard to
corporate governance.

The details of TCS’ board structure and

the various committees that constitute the
governance structure! of the organization are
covered in detail in this report.

1102-18

IntegratedyAmnual Report Corporate Governance Report | 72

 
The various material aspects of corporate governance and TCS’ approach to them are discussed in the table below:

Material Topic TCS’ Approach

Material Topic TCS’ Approach

Avoidance of
conflict of interest

Chairmanship of the Board is a non-executive position and separate
from that of the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
(CEO and MD).

TCoC? for non-executive directors, and for Independent Directors,
carries explicit clauses covering avoidance of conflict of interest.
Likewise, it explicitly prohibits any employee — including the
Managing Director and executive directors — from accepting any
position of responsibility, with or without remuneration, with any
other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. For executive
directors and the Managing Director, such approval must be
obtained from the Board.

 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, TCS strives to reduce information asymmetry through
transparency, extensive disclosures and detailed commentary of the
demand environment and the state of the business. The company
provides a variety of channels including a structured global investor
outreach program, through which minority shareholders can interact
with the management or the Board.

Shareholders can communicate concerns and grievances to the
Company Secretary's office through a well-publicized channel, where
complaints are tracked to closure. The Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee, oversees the redressal of these complaints.

 

Values, Ethics and

 

 

Over the last five decades, TCS has consistently demonstrated a

 

 

 

Board Board independence is ensured by having independent members in compliance? very principled conduct and has earned its reputation for trust and
independence majority (five out of nine), and by setting a high bar in terms of the integrity while building a highly successful global business.
and minority qualifications, expertise and experience in selecting the right mix The company’s core values are: Leading Change, Integrity,
shareholders’ of individuals to serve on the Board, who can collectively serve the Respect for the Individual, Excellence, and Learning and Sharing.
interests best interests of all stakeholders, maintain board and management The TCoc quid 4 ina fi kf
accountability and drive corporate ethics, values and sustainability. e ° serves as a mora gul e anda governing ramework or
Board effectiveness is further enhanced by ensuring diversity in responsible corporate citizenship. It sets out guidelines on various
terms of gender. nationality, industry and areas of expertise. topics including respect for human rights, prohibition of bribery and
TCS’ Policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and
found at https-/on.tcs.com/appointment-BoD. avoidance of conflicts of interest.
TCS' governance philosophy around minority shareholders’ interests Every employee is required to sign the TCoC at ‘re Seo of joining
is guided by the TCoC which emphasizes fairness and transparency the company. Annual retresner courses are mandated to ensure
to all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse and independent continued awareness of the code. Further, frequent communications
Board ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected. from the leadership reiterate the importance of our values and the
TCoC.
2 https:/Avwwwtcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct 3102-16

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Corporate Governance Report | 73
 

 

Material Topic TCS’ Approach

Customers and suppliers are made aware of the TCoC principles
in contract discussions, and through inclusion of specific clauses
in proposals and contracts. The TCS Supplier Code of Conduct is
shared with suppliers as part of the procurement process and is

published on the TCS website.

Employees can raise ethics concerns on Ultimatix — the intranet
portal of the Company, which are investigated and tracked to closure
by the HR department. Employees and other stakeholders can also
report any non-compliance to the TCoC or to the laws of the land
by any one directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee under
the Whistle blower Policy without fear of retaliation. Information
about these channels is communicated to employees as part of the
mandatory training modules.

Compliance to laws of the countries in which TCS operate, as well as
global legislation such as FCPA, UKBA is monitored through formal
compliance procedures led by the corporate compliance office.
Changes to legislation are closely monitored, risks are evaluated and
effectively managed across our operations.

Governance, Risk and Compliance are overseen by Chief Risk Officer
and the Chief HR Officer who report to the Chief Operating Officer
(COO), Executive Director and CEO and MD respectively. At the
apex level, the Audit Committee headed by an Independent Director
oversees compliance to the TCoC Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
policies, gifting policy and to external regulations.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Material Topic TCS’ Approach

Tax Strategy

TCS is committed to comply with the applicable laws and regulations,
and believes in reporting to the respective tax authority, relevant
information that is complete and accurate, in a timely manner.

TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or
tax structuring for the purpose of gaining tax advantages. TCS's tax
policy is to optimize the tax cost, avail tax incentives where available,
while achieving 100% compliance with the spirit as well as the letter
of the tax laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates.
Compliance is achieved through a robust compliance reporting and
monitoring process, with a strong governance on minimizing the tax
risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion, or the facilitation of
tax evasion, by itself or by its employees or vendors. TCS maintains
open and collaborative relationships with governments and tax
authorities worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance
clearance from tax authorities on the proposed tax treatment of
transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.

 

Succession
planning

 

 

TCS' philosophy of empowering employees, its industry-leading
talent retention, and a decentralized organization structure that
devolves executive decision-making across over 150 business units
have resulted in a large and deep bench of leadership talent that
enables robust succession planning and continuity and consistency in
strategy. Succession planning for the top two leadership positions in
each business unit is reviewed by senior management. Additionally,
heads of business units carry out succession planning for key
functions within their units.

Succession planning at senior management levels is reviewed by the
Board. Business or unit heads are invited to present on specific topics
at Board meetings from time to time, offering an opportunity for the
directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.

 

 

Corporate Governance Report | 74
Board of Directors

As on March 31, 2021, the Company has nine Directors. Of the nine
Directors, seven (Le. 77.8 percent) are Non-Executive Directors out of
which five (Le. 55.6 percent) are Independent Directors. The profiles of
Directors are available at https:/Awwwtcs.com/ir- corporate -governance.
The composition of the Board is in conformity with Regulation 17 of the

 

SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 of the Act. iv.

None of the Directors on the Board:
e holds directorships in more than ten public companies;

e serves as Director or as Independent Directors (ID) in more than
seven listed entities; and

@ ~~ who are the Executive Directors serves as IDs in more than three Vv.
listed entities.

Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in other public
companies as on March 31, 2021 have been made by the Directors.
None of the Directors is related to each other except N Ganapathy
Subramaniam and N Chandrasekaran.

Independent Directors are non-executive directors as defined under
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149(6)
of the Act along with rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation
25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not
aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or may be reasonably
anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their
duties. Based on the declarations received from the Independent
Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they meet the
criteria of independence as mentioned under Regulation

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and that they are independent

of the management. Further, the Independent Directors have included

their names in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained with
the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the

Act read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment & Qualification of
Directors) Rules, 2014.

Seven Board Meetings were held during the year under review and the
gap between two meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
The said meetings were held on:

April 16, 2020; July 9, 2020; September 29, 2020; October 7, 2020;
November 23, 2020; January 8, 2021; and March 18, 2021.
The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.

The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their
attendance at Board Meetings held during the year under review and at
the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other listed entities
in which the Director is a director and the number of Directorships and
Committee Chairmanships / Memberships held by them in other public
limited companies as on March 31, 2021 are given herein below.
Other directorships do not include directorships of private limited
companies, foreign companies and companies registered under

Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them is a member of more than
ten committees or chairman of more than five committees across all
the public companies in which he / she is a Director. For the purpose of
determination of limit of the Board Committees, chairpersonship and
membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of

SEBI Listing Regulations.

Corporate Governance Report | 75
Name of the Director Category Neal Xr Whether Number of Number of Directorship in other listed entity

 

of Board attended Directorships in other Committee positions (Category of Directorship)
Meetings last AGM Public Companies held in other Public
attended Litto Moya) (ere ysals)
aturrtg dine ute Tt Chairman Member Chairman Member
ares 2020
N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, 7 Yes 6 - - - 1. Tata Steel Limited @
(Chairman) Non-Executive

DIN 00121863 2. Tata Motors Limited@

3. Tata Consumer Products Limited (Formerly known as
Tata Global Beverages Limited) @

4. The Tata Power Company Limited @
5. The Indian Hotels Company Limited @
6. Tata Chemicals Limited @

 

Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, 7 Yes - - - - -
(Chief Executive Officer and | Executive
Managing Director}
DIN 06365813

N Ganapathy Subramaniam | Non-Independent, 7 Yes 1 - - - Tata Elxsi Limited @
(Chief Operating Officer and | Executive
Executive Director)
DIN 07006215

O P Bhatt Independent, 7 Yes - 4 2 4
DIN 00548091 Non-Executive

 

 

Hindustan Unilever Limited #
Tata Steel Limited #

Tata Motors Limited #

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F WN PF

Aadhar Housing Finance Limited (Debt Listed) #

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 76
Name of the Director Category Neal Xr Whether Number of Number of Directorship in other listed entity

 

 

 

 

 

of Board attended Directorships in other Committee positions (Category of Directorship)
Meetings last AGM Public Companies held in other Public
attended Litto Moya) (ere ysals)
SRS Se (earl iatat1) Member Chairman Member
FY 2021 2020
Aarthi Subramanian Non-Independent, 7 Yes 2 5 1 2 Tata Capital Limited (Debt Listed) @
DIN 07121802 Non-Executive
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla Independent, 7 Yes - - - - -
DIN 03611983 Non-Executive
Hanne Sorensen Independent, 7 Yes - 1 - 2 Tata Motors Limited #
DIN 08035439 Non-Executive
Keki Mistry Independent, 7 Yes - 5 1 5 1. Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited $
DIN 00008886 Non-Executive .
2. Torrent Power Limited #
3. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited *
4. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited@
Don Callahan Independent, 6 Yes - - - - -
DIN 08326836 Non-Executive

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Category of directorship held:
@Non- Independent, Non-Executive # Independent, Non-Executive S Executive Director “ Nominee, Non-Executive

Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent relaxations granted by MCA and SEBI, all Board meetings in FY 2021 were held
through Video Conferencing.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 77
vi.

vil.

viii.

During FY 2021, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule Il of
the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the Board for its
consideration.

During FY 2021, one meeting of the Independent Directors was held on
April 15, 2020. The Independent Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the
performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole and Chairman
of the Company, taking into account the views of Executive Directors and
Non-Executive Directors.

The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of all laws applicable to
the Company.

Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on
March 31, 2021 are given below:

N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Non-Executive 177,056

Aarthi Subramanian Non-Independent, Non-Executive 5,600

Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, Executive 2,760

N Ganapathy Subramaniam | Non-Independent, Executive 197,760

 

Keki Mistry* Independent, Non-Executive 4,150

*includes shares held jointly with relative

The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

x. The Board has identified the following skills / expertise / competencies
fundamental for the effective functioning of the Company which are currently
available with the Board:

 

Global Business | Understanding, of global business dynamics, across various geographical
markets, industry verticals and regulatory jurisdictions.

 

Strategy and Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in
Planning guiding and leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain
environments.

 

Governance Experience in developing governance practices, serving the best interests
of all stakeholders, maintaining board and management accountability,
building long-term effective stakeholder engagements and driving
corporate ethics and values.

 

 

 

 

The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a Director of the Company Is
dependent on whether the person possesses the requisite skill sets identified

by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven leader in running a
business that is relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician

in the field relevant to the Company’s business. Being an IT service provider,

the Company’s business runs across different industry verticals, geographical
markets and is global in nature. The Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse
backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to the industries / fields from
where they come.

Corporate Governance Report | 78
II. Committees of the Board

i. There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2021, details of which are as follows:

Name of the
Ceol rial inci}

Audit Committee

 

 

Extract of terms of reference

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 177
of the Act.

© = Oversight of financial reporting process.

e ~— Reviewing with the management, the annual financial
statements and auditors’ report thereon before
submission to the Board for approval.

° Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk
management systems

@ Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and
terms of appointment of auditors of the Company.

© Approve policies in relation to the implementation
of the Insider Trading Code and to supervise
implementation of the same.

© To consider matters with respect to the Tata Code of

Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and

Gifts Policy.

Category and composition

Name

Category

 

Keki Mistry (Chairman)

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

O P Bhatt

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

Aarthi Subramanian

Non-lIndependent,
Non- Executive

 

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

Hanne Sorensen

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

Don Callahan

 

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

 

 

Other details

Four meetings of the Audit Committee
were held during the year under review
and the gap between two meetings did not
exceed one hundred and twenty days.

Committee invites such of the executives
as it considers appropriate, representatives
of the statutory auditors and internal
auditors, to be present at its meetings.

The Company Secretary acts as the
Secretary to the Audit Committee.

Rajendra Moholkar is the Compliance
Officer to ensure compliance and effective
implementation of the Insider Trading
Code.

Quarterly Reports are sent to the
members of the Committee on matters
relating to the Insider Trading Code.

The previous AGM of the Company was
held on June 11, 2020 and was attended
by Keki Mistry, Chairman of the Audit
Committee.

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Corporate Governance Report | 79

 
Name of the
Ceol rial inci}

Extract of terms of reference

Category and composition

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other details

 

 

 

The broad terms of reference are as under:

Consider and resolve the grievances of security
holders.

Consider and approve issue of share certificates,
transfer and transmission of securities, etc.

Review activities with regard to the Health Safety and
Sustainability initiatives of the Company.

 

(Chairman)

Non-Executive

 

Rajesh Gopinathan

Non-lIndependent,

Executive

 

Keki Mistry

 

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

 

 

Nomination and Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category Two Nomination and Remuneration
Remuneration Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 178 [6 p Bhatt (Chairman) Independent Committee meetings were held during the
Committee of the Act. Non-Executive year under review.
° Recommend to the Board the setup and composition N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, The Company does not have any Employee
of the Board and its Committees. Non-Executive Stock Option Scheme.
@ Recommend to the Board the appointment / Aarthi Subramanian Non-Independent, Details of Performance Evaluation Criteria
re-appointment of Directors and Key Managerial Non-Executive and Remuneration Policy are provided at
Personnel. Hanne Sorensen Independent serial no. IlI(ili) below.
® Support the Board and Independent Directors in Non-Executive The previous AGM of the Company was
evaluation of the performance of the Board, its held on June 11, 2020 and was attended
Committees and individual Directors. by O P Bhatt, Chairman of the Nomination
. . and Remuneration Committee.
° Recommend to the Board the Remuneration Policy for
Directors, executive team or Key Managerial Personnel
as well as the rest of employees.
e Oversee familiarization programs for Directors.
Stakeholders’ Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category Two meetings of the Stakeholders’
Relationship Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 178 [p5, Pradeep Kumar Khosla Independent Relationship Committee were held during
Committee of the Act. . the year under review.

Details of Investor complaints and
Compliance Officer are provided at serial
no. IlI(ii) below.

The previous AGM of the Company was
held on June 11, 2020 and was attended
by Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla, Chairman of
the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Corporate Governance Report | 80

 
Name of the
Ceol rial inci}

Corporate Social
Responsibility (“CSR”)
Committee

Extract of terms of reference

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of

Section 135 of the Act.

° Formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR Policy
indicating the activities to be undertaken by the
Company as specified in Schedule VII of the Act.

° Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred
on the activities mentioned in the CSR Policy.

Category and composition

Name

Category

 

N Chandrasekaran
(Chairman)

Non-lIndependent,
Non-Executive

 

O P Bhatt

Independent,
Non-Executive

 

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Non-Independent,

Other details

Four meetings of the CSR Committee
were held during the year under review.
Four Board meetings of TCS Foundation, a
Section 8 company which was incorporated
with sole objective of carrying on
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
activities of the Company were held during
the year.

 

surplus funds, management of foreign exchange risks,
cyber security risks, data privacy risks and intellectual
property infringements risks.

© = Approve addition / deletion of banks from time to time
for carrying out Treasury transactions and delegate the
said power to such person as may deem fit.

 

 

@ — Monitor the CSR Policy. Executive
Risk Management Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category Four meetings of the RMC were held
Committee (“RMC’) Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations. Keki Mistry Independent, during the year under review.
° Formulate, monitor and review risk management (Chairman) Non-Executive Fortnightly reports on management of
policy and plan, inter alia, covering investment of Don Callahan Independent foreign exchange risks are made available

Non-Executive

 

Rajesh Gopinathan

Non-lIndependent,
Executive

 

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Non-lIndependent,
Executive

 

Ramakrishnan V

Chief Financial Officer

to the members of the RMC.

 

Executive Committee

 

Detailed review of the following matters which form part
of terms of Executive Committee, were presented to the
Board:

e Business and strategy review;
e@ ~~ Long-term financial projections and cash flows:

© Capital and revenue budgets and capital expenditure
programmes;

© Acquisitions, divestments and business restructuring
proposals;

® Senior management succession planning:
e Any other item as may be decided by the Board.

Name

Category

 

N Chandrasekaran
(Chairman)

Non-Independent,
Non-Executive

 

Rajesh Gopinathan

 

Non-lIndependent,
Executive

 

 

 

The said matters were discussed in various
Board meetings held during the year under
review in the presence of the Executive
Committee Members with the intent to
avail expertise of all Board members.

 

 

The terms of reference of these committees are available on the website (https:/Awww.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance)

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Corporate Governance Report | 81
ii. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee -
other details

a. Name, designation and address of
Compliance Officer:

Rajendra Moholkar

Company Secretary

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9" Floor, Nirmal Building,
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021.
Telephone: 91 22 6778 9595

b. Details of investor complaints received
and redressed during FY 2021 are as
follows:

Coy rcaliare] Received Resolved Closing
PeT Tard duringthe — during the PeT Tard

Siecle Siecle

 

 

iii, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee - other details

Performance Evaluation Criteria for
Independent Directors:

The performance evaluation criteria for
independent directors is determined

by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee. An indicative list of factors on
which evaluation was carried out includes

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

participation and contribution by a director,
commitment, effective deployment

of knowledge and expertise, integrity

and maintenance of confidentiality and
independence of behaviour and judgement.

Remuneration Policy:

Remuneration policy of the Company is
designed to create a high-performance
culture. It enables the Company to attract,
retain and motivate employees to achieve
results. Our business model promotes
customer centricity and requires employee
mobility to address project needs.

The remuneration policy supports such
mobility through pay models that are
compliant to local regulations. In each
country where the Company operates,
the remuneration structure is tailored to
the regulations, practices and benchmarks
prevalent in the IT industry.

The Company pays remuneration by way of
salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances
(fixed component) and commission (variable
component) to its Managing Director and
the Executive Directors. Annual increments
are recommended by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee within the salary
scale approved by the Board and Members
and are effective April 1, each year.

The Board of Directors, on the recommendation

of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
decides the commission payable to the Managing
Director and the Executive Directors out of the
profits for the financial year and within the ceilings
prescribed under the Act, based on the Board
evaluation process considering the criteria such as
the performance of the Company as well as that of
the Managing Director and each Executive Director.

The Company pays sitting fees of 730,000 per
meeting to its Non-Executive Directors for attending
meetings of the Board and meetings of committees
of the Board. The Company also pays commission

to the Non-Executive Directors within the ceiling

of 1 percent of the net profits of the Company as
computed under the applicable provisions of the
Act, with the approval of the members. The said
commission is decided each year by the Board

of Directors, on the recommendation of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and
distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors
based on the Board evaluation process, considering
criteria such as their attendance and contribution

at the Board and Committee meetings, as well as
the time spent on operational matters other than at
meetings. The Company also reimburses the
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors
for attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy
is available on https:/on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.

 

Corporate Governance Report | 82
iv. Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2021:

 

 

 

a. Non-Executive Directors: b. Managing Director and Executive Director
(= lakh) (% lakh)
Name of Director SS IETaY ere ey Commission
N Chandrasekaran, Chairman@ 3.90 anqwibiiss
and Allowances
OP Bhatt 5.40 Rajesh Gopinathan 127.50 209.04] — 1.700.00 -
Aarthi Subramanian@@ - 3.90 Chief Executive Officer
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla 185.00 4.20 and Managing Director
(wef. February 21,2017
Hanne Sorensen 185.00 4.20 for a period of 5 years)
Keki Mistry 200.00 5.40 N Ganapathy 121.50 18893| 1,300.00 -
Don Callahan 200.00 4.50 Subramaniam
Total 1,000.00 31.50 Chief Operating Officer
and Executive Director
@ Asa policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from (wef. February 21,2017
receiving commission from the Company. for a period of 5 years)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is
made towards commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata
company.

The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity
and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial
valuation / premium paid are not available.

Services of the Managing Director and Executive Director may be
terminated by either party, giving the other party six months’ notice
or the Company paying six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no
separate provision for payment of severance pay.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 83
v. Number of committee meetings held and attendance records

No. of meetings held ——= 4 2 2 4 4
Date of meetings —=> April 16, 2020; April 16, 2020 July 14, 2020 and April 29, 2020; April 6, 2020;
July 9, 2020; and January 15, 2021 July 23, 2020; July 3, 2020;
October 7, 2020 and October 7, 2020 October 30, 2020 and October 1, 2020 and
January 8, 2021 February 11, 2021° January 15, 2021

No. of Meetings Attended

Name of Member

N Chandrasekaran

Rajesh Gopinathan

O P Bhatt

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Aarthi Subramanian

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

Hanne Sorensen

Keki Mistry

Don Callahan - -

Ramakrishnan V
Whether quorum was present for all the The necessary quorum was present for all the above committee meetings

meetings

 

@ TCS Foundation, a Section 8 company incorporated in 2015 with sole objective of carrying on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the Company,
has held four meetings during the FY 2021.

Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic all Committee meetings in FY 2021 were held through Video Conferencing.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 84
IV. General Body Meetings

i. General Meeting

a. Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):

Financial
bre

2018

IDE key

June 15, 2018

 

2019

June 13,2019

 

2020

 

 

June 11, 2020

 

Time

3.30 p.m.

A etal es

Birla Matushri Sabhagar
19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg,
New Marine Lines, Mumbai — 400 020

 

 

Meeting conducted through VC / OAVM
pursuant to the MCA Circular

 

 

b. Extraordinary General Meeting:

No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2021.

c. Special resolution:

Special resolution for re-appointment of O P Bhatt as an Independent Director was passed at the
AGM held in 2019 and no special resolution was passed in the previous AGMs held in 2018 and

2020.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Details of special resolution passed through
postal ballot, the persons who conducted
the postal ballot exercise, details of the
voting pattern and procedure of postal
ballot:

The Company had sought the approval

of the shareholders by way of a Special
Resolution through notice of postal ballot
dated October 7, 2020 for buy-back of
its equity shares, which was duly passed
and the results of which were announced
on November 18, 2020. P N Parikh
(Membership No. FCS 327) of

Parikh & Associates, Practising Company
Secretaries, was appointed as the
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot
process only by voting through electronic
means (remote e-voting) in a fair and
transparent manner.

Corporate Governance Report | 85
Description of the Votes in favour of the resolution Votes against the resolution

 

Invalid votes
ered og Number of Number of Percentage of Number of Number of Percentage of | Totalnumber of Total number of
members voted valid Votes cast = total number of members voted valid votes cast total numberof members whose __ invalid votes cast
(Shares) valid votes cast (Shares) valid votes cast votes were (Shares)
lel elexeM elite!
Approval for Buy-back 5,202 3,482,270,324 99.57 289 14,932,052 0.43 0 0
of Equity Shares

 

Procedure for postal ballot: The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act, read
with the Rules framed thereunder and read with the Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, Circular No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020 and
Circular No. 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.

iii. Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:

None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through postal ballot.

Vv. Acertificate has been received from Parikh & Associates, Practising Company VI. BSR&Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company has 101248W/W — 100022) has been appointed as the Statutory Auditors of
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory Auditors’ fees, on
of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of consolidated basis for FY 2021 is given below:

Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. (® lakh)

Services as sta auditors (includi arterly audits) 910.1

Tax audit 63.5
Services for tax matters 24.8
Other matters 389.4

Re-imbursement of out-of- 78.7

Total 1,466.5

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 86
VIL. Other Disclosure

Particulars Seed Ker Details Website link for details / policy
Related party transactions Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing There are no material related party transactions during the https:/on.tes.com/RPT
Regulations and as defined year under review that have conflict with the interest of the
under the Act Company. Transactions entered into with related parties during

FY 2021 were in the ordinary course of business and at arms’
length basis and were approved by the Audit Committee.

The Board's approved policy for related party transactions Is
uploaded on the website of the Company.

 

Details of non-compliance by the Schedule V (C) 10(b) to the Nil
Company, penalty, strictures imposed | SEBI Listing Regulations
on the Company by the stock
exchange, or Securities and Exchange
Board of India (SEBI) or any statutory
authority on any matter related to
capital markets during the last three
financial years.

 

Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing The Company has this Policy and has established the necessary | https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP
Mechanism Regulations vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report
concerns about unethical behaviour. No person has been
denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The
said policy has been uploaded on the website of the Company.

 

Discretionary requirements Schedule II Part E of the ©  Amessage from the Chief Executive Officer and

SEBI Listing Regulations Managing Director on the half-yearly financial
performance of the Company including a summary of
the significant events in the six month period ended
September 30, 2020 was sent to every member.

@ = The auditors’ report on financial statements of the
Company are unmodified.

° Internal auditors of the Company make quarterly
presentations to the audit committee on their reports.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 87
Particulars

Subsidiary Companies

Statutes

Regulation 24 of the
SEBI Listing Regulations

Details

The audit committee reviews the consolidated financial
statements of the Company and the investments made by

its unlisted subsidiary companies. The minutes of the Board
meetings along with a report on significant developments of
the unlisted subsidiary companies are periodically placed before
the Board of Directors of the Company.

The Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary
company.

The Company has a policy for determining ‘material
subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website.

Website link for details / policy

https:/on.tcs.com/Subsidiary

 

Policy on Determination of Materiality
for Disclosures

Regulation 30 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

The Company has adopted this policy.

https:/on.tcs.com/Material

 

Policy on Archival and Preservation of
Documents

Regulation 9 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

The Company has adopted this policy.

https:/on.tcs.com/Archival

 

Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
Report

Regulation 76 of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India
(Depositories and Participants}
Regulations, 2018 and

SEBI Circular No D&CC /
FITTC/ Cir- 16/2002 dated
December 31, 2002.

A qualified practising Company Secretary carried out a share
capital audit to reconcile the total admitted equity share capital
with the National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and
the Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) and
the total issued and listed equity share capital. The audit report
confirms that the total issued / paid-up capital is in agreement
with the total number of shares in physical form and the total
number of dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL.

https:/Awww.tcs.com/corporate- governance

 

 

Code of Conduct

 

 

Regulation 17 of the
SEBI Listing Regulations

 

The members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel
have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct applicable
to them during the year ended March 31, 2021. The
Integrated Annual Report of the Company contains a certificate
by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, on the
compliance declarations received from the members of the
Board and Senior Management.

https:/Awww.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Corporate Governance Report | 88

 
Particulars

Dividend Distribution Policy

Statutes

Regulation 43A of the
SEBI Listing Regulations

Details

A regular annual dividend generally consists of three interim
dividends after each of the first three quarters of the fiscal
year, topped up with a final dividend after the fourth quarter.

In addition, every second or third year, the accumulated surplus
cash has been returned to shareholders through a special
dividend.

Website link for details / policy
https:/on.tcs.com/Dividend

 

Directors

Terms of Appointment of Independent

Regulation 46 of SEBI Listing
Regulations and Section 149
read with Schedule IV of the
Act

Terms and conditions of appointment / re-appointment of
Independent Directors are available on the Company's website.

https:/on.tcs.com/ApptID

 

Familiarization Program

Regulations 25(7) and 46 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

Details of familiarization program imparted to Independent
Directors are available on the Company's website.

https:/on.tcs.com/familiarization- programme

 

 

Disclosure under the Sexual

(Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2018

 

Harassment of Women at Workplace

 

Section 134 of the Companies
Act, 2013 read with Rule 8

of the Companies (Accounts)
Rules, 2014

 

The details have been disclosed in the Business Responsibility
Report forming part of the Integrated Annual Report.

 

 

 

VIII. Means of Communication

The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include The Indian Express, Financial Express,
Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. The results are also displayed on the Company's website www.tcs.com.

Statutory notices are published in The Free Press Journal, Business Standard and Navshakti. The Company also issues press releases from time to time. Financial Results,
Statutory Notices, Press Releases and Presentations made to the institutional investors / analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results
are submitted to the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) as well as uploaded on the Company’s website. Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https:/Avww.tcs.com/investor-relations. A Management Discussion and
Analysis Report is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Corporate Governance Report | 89
IX. General shareholder information vi. Stock Codes / Symbol

i. Annual General Meeting for FY 2021 NSE: TCS
Date » June 10, 2021 BSE: 532540
Time : 3.30pm (IST) Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
Venue : Meeting is being conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to vii. Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
the MCA Circular dated May 5, 2020 read with circulars dated of the Company : L22210MH1995PLC084781

April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020 and January 13, 2021 and as iii. Market Price Data:
such there is no requirement to have a venue for the AGM. wat Market Price Vata:
High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares

For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM. : ”
traded during each month in FY 2021 on NSE and BSE:

As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and
Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, particulars of Directors
seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the

Notice of this AGM.

ii. Financial Calendar
Apr-2020 | 2,014.45] 1,654.20 88,921,044] 2.01485] 1,654.40 2,933,547
Year ending » March 31 May-2020| 2,02035| 1,99165| 65,346,426] 2,.01895| 1,891.25 2,336,179
AGM in : June Jun-2020 | 2,118.85] 2,016.10 73,994,030] 2,115.60] 2,010.90 5,655,678
iii. Dividend Payment : The final dividend, if approved, shall be Jul-2020 | 2,309.75} 2,092.05} 106,381,350] 2,309.20} 2,092.55 4,563,262
paid / credited on Monday, June 14, 2021 Aug-2020 } 230810| 2,238.55 65,561,599| 2,307.70] 2,237.10 2,141,484
iv. Date of Book Closure / Sep-2020 | 2,522.95] 2,246.35] 116,408,785] 252355] 2,245.30 4,232,712
Record Date : As mentioned in the Notice of this AGM Oct-2020 | 2,830.00} 2523.45] 128,618,662] 283120] 2,522.75 4,370,785
v. Listing on Stock Exchanges - National Stock Exchange of India Limited Nov-2020 | 2,726.60} 2,604.60 65,135,883] 2,725.90] 2,603.85 2,612,896
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Dec-2020 | 2,930.50} 2,709.45 62,832,148] 293065] 2,708.45 3,035,676

Bandra Kurla Complex Bandra (East),
Mumbai 400 051

BSE Limited
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001

Jan-2021 3,308.80] 2,928.25 84,685,394 | 3,308.20] 2,928.20 6,356,022
Feb-2021 3,214.10] 2,894.30 65,464,843) 3,215.15] 2,896.05 3,780,459
Mar-2021 | 3,177.85] 2,924.20 71,839,687 | 3,177.60] 2,926.20 3,093,672

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 90
 

 

 

 

ix. Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the Effective April 1, 2021, the registered address of TCPL has changed to
BSE Sensex: the abovementioned address from 6, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial
Estate, 20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011.
TCS Share price and BSE Sensex Movement xi. Places for acceptance of documents:
220.00 Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and
200.00 3.30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
180.00
160.00 For the convenience of the shareholders, documents will also be accepted
140.00 at the following branches of TCPL:
120.00 a. Branches of TCPL:
100.00
80.00 ® Bengaluru ® Jamshedpur
60.00 C/o. Mr. D. Nagendra Rao Bungalow No. 1, 'E' Road,
Fipr-20 May-20 Jun-20 14-20 Fug-20 Sep-20 Oc 20 Now-20 Dac-20 Jarr21 Feb-21 Mar-21 "Vaghdevi" 543/A, 7% Main Northern Town Bistupur,
Base 100= Wednesday, April 1,2020 3 Cross, Hanumanthnagar Jamshedpur - 831001
Bengaluru - 560019
x. Registrars and Transfer Agents Kolkata New Delhi

Name and Address : TSR Darashaw Consultants Private Limited (TCPL)
C-101, 1* Floor, 247 Park,

Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg,

Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400083

Telephone : 022 6656 8484

Extn :411/412/413

Fax : 022 6656 8494

C/o Link Intime India

Private Limited

Vaishno Chamber,

Flat No. 502 & 503

5" Floor, 6, Brabourne Road
Kolkata - 700001

® Ahmedabad

C/o Link Intime India

Private Limited

Noble Heights, 1* Floor

Plot No NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri
New Delhi - 110058

C/o Link India Intime Private Limited
Amarnath Business Centre-1 (ABC-1)
Beside Gala Business Centre

Nr. St. Xavier's College Corner

Off. C.G. Road, Ellisbridge

Ahmedabad - 380006

E-mail : csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Website : https:/Awww.tcplindia.co.in

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 91
xii. Share Transfer System: b. Categories of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2021:

In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended
from time to time, securities can be transferred only in dematerialized
form with effect from April 1,2019, except in case of request received for Promoters 2,669,125,829
transmission or transposition of securities. Further, SEBI has fixed March

31, 2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement of transfer deeds and Other Entities of the Promoter Grow 1078,469
the shares that are re-lodged for transfer shall be issued only in demat Mutual Funds and UT - 105,446,780
mode. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to consider Banks, Financial Institutions, States and Central 2,717,528
converting their holdings to dematerialized form. Transfers of equity Government -
shares in electronic form are effected through the depositories with Insurance Companies 180,602,928
no involvement of the Company. The Directors and certain Company Foreign Institutional Investors and Foreign 577,872,115
officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are Portfolio Investors - Corporate
authorized by the Board severally to approve transfers, which are noted at NRI's / OCB's / ign Nationals 5,783,506
subsequent Board Meetings. Bodies / Trust 23,550,503
xiii. Shareholding as on March 31, 2021: Indian Public and Others 129,412,703
ee . . . Alternate Investment Fund 2,924,427
a. Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2021: IEPF account 536,585

 

GRAND TOTAL 3,699,051,373

1-100 22,300,258 875,220
101 - 500 39,873,938 195,829
501 - 1000 15,299,099 21,296
1001 - 5000 28,370,143 14,577
5001 - 10000 9,465,878 37

10001 - 20000 9,558,427 03 675

20001 - 30000 6,285,683 02 257
30001 - 40000 6,191,165 02 179
40001- 50000 5,588,711 01 124
50001 -100000 25,925,253 07 359
100001 - above | 3,530,192,818 95.4 909
GRAND TOTAL | 3,699, 73 100.0 762

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Corporate Governance Report | 92
c. Top ten equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2021:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

im Name of the shareholder* Number of equity Percentage

No See lesra tells) of holding
Tata Sons Private Limited 2,669,125,829 72.2

2 Life Insurance Corporation of India 143,882,693 3.8

3 Invesco Oppenheimer Developing 29,442,588 08
Markets Fund

4 | SBI Mutual Fund 26,771,470 0.7

5 Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited 20,931,890 0.6

6 | Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock 13,581,105 0.4
Index Fund, A Series Of Vanguard
International Equity Index Funds

7 NPS Trust Account 13,327,027 04

8 Government Of Singapore 13,123,054 04

9 Vanguard Total International Stock Index 12,174,731 03
Fund

10 | First State Investments Icvc- Stewart 11,529,019 03
Investors Asia Pacific Leaders Fund

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number (PAN) of
the shareholder.

xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity:

The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on
NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the Company representing 99.97 percent
of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialized as on

March 31, 2021. Under the Depository System, the International
Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is
INE467B01029.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments,
conversion date and likely impact on equity:

The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any
convertible instruments in the past and hence, as on March 31, 2021, the
Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any
convertible instruments.

i. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities:

The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure
pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018 is not required to
be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging
activities, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

ii. Equity shares in the suspense account:

In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of
Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of equity shares in the
suspense account are as follows:

Tira) Siatole
UW ARS)

1,640

Number of
shareholders

oT aael lela}

Aggregate number of shareholders and the 26
outstanding shares in the suspense account
lying as on April 1, 2020

 

Shareholders who approached the Company for - -
transfer of shares from suspense account during
the year

 

Shareholders to whom shares were transferred - -
from the suspense account during the year

 

Shareholders whose shares are transferred to - -
the demat account of the IEPF Authority as per
Section 124 of the Act

 

Aggregate number of shareholders and the 26
outstanding shares in the suspense account

1,640

 

 

 

 

lying as on March 31, 2021

 

Corporate Governance Report | 93
xviii.

Integrated A\

The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as
on March 31, 2021 shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such
shares claims the shares.

Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund:

Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with the Investor
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and
Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period
of seven years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of
the Company, are liable to be transferred to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund (“IEPF”).

Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has remained
unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer
to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority.
The said requirement does not apply to shares in respect of which there
is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining
any transfer of the shares.

In the interest of the shareholders, the Company sends periodical
reminders to the shareholders to claim their dividends in order to avoid
transfer of dividends / shares to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard are
also published in the newspapers and the details of unclaimed dividends
and shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred to the

IEPF Authority, are uploaded on the Company's website
https:/on.tcs.com/unclaimed-dividend.

 

nnual Report 2020-21

In light of the aforesaid provisions, the Company has during the year
under review, transferred to IEPF the unclaimed dividends, outstanding
for seven years, of the Company, erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited and
CMC Limited (since amalgamated with the Company). Further, shares of
the Company, in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for
seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid
dividend account, have also been transferred to the demat account of
IEPF Authority.

The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during
FY 2021 are as follows:

 

 

 

Financial year Amount of Number of shares
unclaimed dividend transferred
bie Tcelm cael
(Cae)
2012-13 144.57* 15,391
2013-14 121.45 226,716
TOTAL 266.02 242,107

 

 

 

 

 

*Includes final dividend of erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited and erstwhile
CMC Limited

The members who have a claim on above dividends and shares may claim
the same from IEPF Authority by submitting an online application in web
Form No. IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and sending

a physical copy of the same, duly signed to the Company, along with
requisite documents enumerated in the Form No. IEPF-5. No claims shall
lie against the Company in respect of the dividend / shares so transferred.

Corporate Governance Report | 94
The following tables give information relating to various outstanding

dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by the shareholders
from the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent:

a. For shareholders of TCS:

Financial Year

 

Date of declaration

Last date for claiming

unpaid dividend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-14 June 27, 2014 July 27, 2021
2014-15 July 17,2014 August 18, 2021
October 16, 2014 November 16, 2021
January 15, 2015 February 15, 2022
June 30, 2015 July 30, 2022
2015-16 July 9, 2015 August 9, 2022
October 13, 2015 November 12, 2022
January 12, 2016 February 11, 2023
June 17, 2016 July 17, 2023
2016-17 July 14, 2016 August 15, 2023
October 13, 2016 November 16, 2023
January 12, 2017 February 12, 2024
June 16, 2017 July 16, 2024
2017-18 July 13,2017 August 13, 2024
October 12, 2017 November 12, 2024
January 11, 2018 February 10, 2025
June 15, 2018 July 15, 2025
2018-19 July 10, 2018 August 9, 2025
October 11, 2018 November 10, 2025
January 10, 2019 February 9, 2026
June 13, 2019 July 13, 2026
2019-20 July 9, 2019 August 8, 2026
October 10, 2019 November 9, 2026
January 17, 2020 February 16, 2027
March 10, 2020 April 9, 2027
June 11, 2020 July 11, 2027

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

xix,

alclter lm ccle

Date of declaration

Last date for claiming

unpaid dividend

 

2020-21

July 9, 2020

August 8, 2027

 

October 7, 2020

November 6, 2027

 

 

January 8, 2021

 

February 7, 2028

 

b. For shareholders of erstwhile CMC Limited which has merged

with the Company:

alclter lm ccle

Date of declaration

Last date for claiming

 

unpaid dividend

 

 

 

 

 

2013-14 June 23, 2014 July 22, 2021
2014-15 June 11, 2015 July 10, 2022
2015-16 July 16, 2015 August 18, 2022

 

Plant locations:

In view of the nature of the Company's business viz. Information
Technology (IT) Services and IT Enabled Services, the Company
operates from various offices in India and abroad. The Company has
a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada,

Mapusa— Bardez, Goa.

. Address for correspondence:

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9" Floor, Nirmal Building Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
Telephone: 91 22 6778 9595
Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investorrelations@tcs.com
For queries on IEPF related matters: iepf.assist@tcs.com

Website: www.tcs.com

Corporate Governance Report | 95

 

 
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY
BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF

CONDUCT

This is to confirm that the Company has adopted

a Code of Conduct for its employees including

the Managing Director and Executive Directors.

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code

of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and
Independent Directors. These Codes are available on
the Company’s website.

| confirm that the Company has in respect of the
year ended March 31, 2021, received from the
Senior Management Team of the Company and the
Members of the Board a declaration of compliance
with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.

For the purpose of this declaration, Senior
Management Team means the Chief Financial Officer,
Global Head - HR, Global Business Unit Heads,
Global Head - Legal and the Company Secretary as
on March 31, 2021.

Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited

We have examined the compliance of the conditions
of Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy
Services Limited (‘the Company) for the year ended
on March 31, 2021, as stipulated under Regulations
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub- regulation (2)

of Regulation 46 and para C, D and E of Schedule

V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations’).

The compliance of the conditions of Corporate
Governance is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our examination was limited to the
review of procedures and implementation thereof,
as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance
with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is
neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the
financial statements of the Company.

In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us, and
the representations made by the Directors and the

Management and considering the relaxations granted

by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities
and Exchange Board of India warranted due to the
spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that

the Company has complied with the conditions of
Corporate Governance as stipulated in the

SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on
March 31, 2021.

We further state that such compliance is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which
the management has conducted the affairs of the
Company.

For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries

P N Parikh

Partner

FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
UDIN: F000327C000064501

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Corporate Governance Report | 96
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS

(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)

To,

The Members

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9" Floor, Nirmal Building,

Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

We have examined the relevant registers, records,
forms, returns and disclosures received from the
Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited
having CIN L22210MH1995PLC084781 and
having registered office at 9° Floor, Nirmal Building,
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before
me/us by the Company for the purpose of issuing
this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation
34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause
10{i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements}
Regulations, 2015.

In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the verifications (including Directors
Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal
www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and
explanations furnished to us by the Company &

its officers, We hereby certify that none of the
Directors on the Board of the Company as stated

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

below for the Financial Year ending on March 31,
2021 have been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as Directors of companies
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India,
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other
Statutory Authority.

Name of Director Date of

Nexen an aA
Company *
1. | NChandrasekaran | 00121863 | September 6, 2007

 

 

2. | Rajesh
Gopinathan

06365813 | February 21, 2017

 

3. | N Ganapathy
Subramaniam

07006215 | February 21, 2017

 

 

 

OP Bhatt 00548091 April 2, 2012
Aarthi 07121802 March 12, 2015
Subramanian

6. | Dr. Pradeep 03611983 January 11,2018

Kumar Khosla

 

7. | Hanne Sorensen 08035439 | December 18, 2018

 

8. | Keki Mistry 00008886 | December 18, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

9. | Don Callahan 08326836 January 10, 2019

 

 

*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.

Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment /
continuity of every Director on the Board is the
responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
based on our verification. This certificate is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which

the management has conducted the affairs of the
Company.

For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries

P N Parikh

Partner

FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
UDIN: FO000327C000064655

Mumbai, April 12, 2021 4\

Corporate Governance Report | 97
 

OVERVIEW OF THE INDUSTRY

The pandemic is estimated to have caused a 3.3%
contraction of the world output in CY 2020}, with
advanced economies contracting 4.7%, and many
sectors such as travel, hospitality, transportation,
aerospace, consumer discretionary and small
enterprises getting impacted severely across the
world. Consequently, global technology spend?
declined 3.2% to about $14 trillion in 2020. Within
that, IT services spending declined more, down 3.9%,

while Business Process Management declined by 2.4%.

Global Market
USD Billion

1400 1355

1300 Ey

1200

1100

1000
900
800
700
600

 

FY 2011 FY 2021

 

1 World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2021
? Nasscom Strategic Review Report 2021

TCS has grown twice
the rate of the
market growth over
the last decade

While the spending showed a decline on a full year basis,
technology was center-stage in enterprises’ response

to the pandemic-related lockdowns and thereafter.
After the initial contraction due to dislocations, the need
for business continuity, operational resilience and the
switch to digital transactions drove strong demand for IT
services over the rest of the year.

Demand for services around remote connectivity,
cybersecurity, collaboration tools, digitized processes,
automation and cloud adoption, progressively
strengthened in the course of the year.

   
 
   
    
     
 
  
 
   
     

USD Million
25000
20000 Ea
15000
10000

5000

FY 2011 FY 2021

Management Discussion and Analysis | 98
Very importantly, as consumers shifted to digital channels for most of

their needs, enterprises realized the need to invest in enhancing customer
experience. This significantly accelerated investments in digital transformation
and cloud adoption.

The global market for IT services continues to be a highly fragmented one,
with even the largest provider having a mid-single digit market share. TCS

is among the largest IT services providers globally, with a market share of
1.6%, and has significantly outperformed the market, growing at twice the
rate of market growth over the last decade. This may be attributed to market
share gains resulting from TCS’ customer-centric strategy and organization
structure, focused investments in building superior capabilities, better
execution resulting greater customer satisfaction, and steadily expanding
participation in customers’ growth and transformation spends.

TCS’ BUSINESS
An Overview?

TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions organization partnering
many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformational journeys

for the last 50 years. It has a global presence, deep domain expertise in
multiple industry verticals and a complete portfolio of offerings — grouped
under consulting and service integration, digital transformation services,

cloud services, cognitive business operations, and products and platforms —
targeting every C-suite stakeholder.

The Company leverages all these and its deep contextual knowledge of its
customers’ businesses to craft unique, high quality, high impact solutions
designed to deliver differentiated business outcomes. These solutions are
delivered using its Secure Borderless Workspaces™ (SBWS™) operating model
which enables a highly distributed, Location Independent Agile™ delivery.

 

> 102-2
Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS geographic footprint covers North America, Latin America, the United Kingdom,
Continental Europe, Asia-Pacific, India, and Middle-East and Africa’.

TCS considers industry verticals as its go-to-market business segments. The five key
vertical clusters are: Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Retail and
Consumer Business, Communications, Media and Technology (CMT), Manufacturing and
Others. The last category includes Life Sciences and Healthcare, Energy, Resources and
Utilities, Public Services and others.

 
       
    
 
     

  
     
     
 

UK & Ireland Europe

2.0 locations

7 locations

. Japan
North Amenca

9 locations

2 locations

LATAM
19 locations

” ’

“APAC - 8 (China - 5, Philippines -2, Singapore -1)

Key Industry Verticals

Ci a ml BS a wy

>

Hy

—

 

 

Banking, Financial Retailand = Communications, Manufacturing _Life Sciences Energy, Public
Services and Consumer Media and and Healthcare Resources Services
Insurance Business Technology and Utilities

TCS Global Delivery Footprint

 

“102-4, 102-6
Management Discussion and Analysis | 99
Integrated Business Model

   

Intellectual Capital
Domain knowledge, contextual knowledge,
patents, products and platforms

 

Partners
Technology and COIN

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
   
 
       
 

   

Human Capital v

Skills, competencies, capabilities, knowledge i i OPERATIONS
and motivation of employees : i

 

Research & Innovation
einer (Urea Moa laco la tat)
FINANCIAL CAPITAL Sea wevolUisCe lary
Sources of funds from
business operations,
financing or investing
activities

  

Natural Capital
Renewable & Non-renewable Resources

Talent Acquisition CUSTOMER
Talent Engagement ENGAGEMENT
BEN tate BIT Coo T atta

 

v

_— a
. Sy Contextual Knowledge

Manufactured Capital
Physical Infrastructure including Buildings, Agile Workspaces,
Equipment & Software

 

Customer Gooduill/Brand Value/CSR/Taxes

 

Social & Relationship Capital

Investors, Customers, Employees,Communities Gooduuill Stakeholder Payout, Reserves

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 100
INPUT
Financial

Cory e]|

Intellectual
(ery oT e]|

&

Human
Cory Te]

Natural
(ery oye]

Manufactured
(ery)

RTerar 14
Relationship
(ery e]|

 

* Excluding provision towards legal claim

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

OUTPUT

164,177 crore Revenue © 116.2%* Operating cash flow to

Net income ratio

° 101.5%* Shareholder payout to
Net income ratio

4.4x growth over the last decade
25.9%* Operating margin
=50,430 crore Invested Funds

5,879 Patents applied
1,850 Patents granted
67 academic partnerships and ecosystem of 2,400 startups in COIN program

6,000+ innovators nurtured till date

® 379k+ associates trained in new
technologies

40,185 Net addition of employees
7.2% Attrition

Achrilionleaminehotel cece e 457k+ associates trained in agile

48.8% reduction in absolute carbon footprint YoY (Scope 1 + Scope 2}
63.9% Reduction in fresh water consumption YoY

1.65 Power utilization efficiency achieved at 21 data centers

1,000+ Number of agile workspaces
5 PacePorts
30+ innovation labs

11 cities with Covid care centers within TCS Facilities

48 $100M+ clients ® 2737 crore CSR spend

© 1.8 million+ Number of beneficiaries of
global CSR initiatives

101 $50M+ clients

$14.9 billion Brand Valuation
© 787+ Volunteering hours spent on CSR

OUTCOMES

Strong growth creates more Jobs, and career growth opportunities for employees

Best in class profitability and strong balance sheet provide greater ability to invest
in newer capabilities and to weather economic downturns

Consistently high shareholder returns enhances relationship capital

Enabled new business models, new revenue streams
Expanded the addressable market

Differentiated positioning; superior speed to market and generate higher
quality revenues

Winning large growth and transformation engagements

Best in class talent retention helps foster contextual knowledge, ensures stability
in delivery teams

Upskilling and reskilling at scale has created a large and deep pool of expertise

Limited the impact of the company’s physical operations

Fulfilled responsibilities towards environmental stewardship

Enabled wider adoption of TCS’ pioneering Location independent agile model,
pre- pandemic

Easy switchover to the SBLUS during the pandemic
Greater visibility of TCS’ Research and Innovation
More innovation engagements

Relief to employees needing Covid care

Deep and enduring customer relationships with high repeat business
Greater revenue visibility, lower selling expense
Stronger brand, helping drive higher quality revenue

Very high gooduuill in the community, fulfilling the company’s purpose

Management Discussion and Analysis | 101
Value Creation Model®

Talent and creativity, that is represented by human
capital, is at the core of TCS’ value creation engine.

TCS continually enhances its human capital by
acquiring the best talent available in each of the
markets it operates in, providing a supportive and
vibrant workplace to engage that talent, investing
in upskilling individuals with the latest technology
skills, and giving them career paths matching their
aspirations.

A firm belief in organic talent development, and

of investing in people has helped TCS successfully
navigate through multiple technology cycles over the
last five decades, pivoting and adapting each time to
build relevant new capabilities through reskilling of
the workforce at scale and helping customers realize
the benefits of emerging technologies.

The company’s industry-aligned, customer-centric
organization structure has resulted in each business
unit acquiring tremendous domain depth, and

the account teams within those units building up
immense customer-specific contextual knowledge.
This domain expertise, contextual knowledge, project
management experience and technology expertise
gained on the job represents a conversion of human
capital into intellectual capital.

 

> 103-2

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS applies some of its intellectual capital towards
investments in research and innovation (R&l),
exploring the creative use of newer technologies

to solve business problems across different industry
verticals. In addition to its own intellectual capital,
TCS also partners with leading technology providers,
start-ups and academic researchers to leverage their
intellectual capital and build solutions.

The immediate tangible outcomes of TCS’ R&l,
produced by in-house teams or co-created with
customers or partners, are patents, proofs of
concepts, and pilot solutions. The latter two are
showcased at various innovation centers and Pace
Ports™, and trigger conversations with customers on
innovation in their specific business contexts. These
often culminate in them signing up TCS as their
innovation partner.

Some of the innovative software solutions piloted

by R&l, that are assessed to have a material market
potential are productized, adding to TCS’ large
portfolio of products and platforms. These expand
the organization’s intellectual capital; create new,
higher value revenue streams, adding to the financial
capital; and enhance its brand positioning i.e.
relationship capital.

Customer Engagement

TCS uses its intellectual capital and human capital
to build impactful, customized technology and

business solutions that address the customer’s
business problems. Further, its ability to stitch
together complex, holistic solutions that address

the needs of all stakeholders in the enterprise, along
with the high levels of trust engendered in customer
relationships, helps it win large transformation deals.
These deals bring in high quality revenues, powering
industry-leading organic growth and margins,
boosting the company’s financial capital.

These solutions create immense value for its
customers by helping them embrace new business
models, pursue new revenue streams, deliver
superior customer experiences or build resilience and
efficiency into their operations, and gain competitive
differentiation.

The company’s strong service orientation, willingness
to invest in the relationship, commitment to deliver
impactful outcomes and track record of execution
excellence have resulted in consistently high
customer satisfaction levels and long, enduring
customer relationships. The resultant expansion in
relationship capital translates into a very high level
of repeat business that lends greater visibility and
predictability to the business model.

TCS constantly invests in building newer capabilities
and expanding its offerings. By cross-selling and up-
selling these new offerings, customer engagements
continually expand over the years, covering newer
and newer areas of the enterprise’s operations.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 102
This further broadens and deepens the contextual
knowledge of customers’ business and IT landscapes,
further enhancing TCS’ intellectual capital.

Over time, this combination of business knowledge,
contextual knowledge, technology depth, and
intellectual property has become a steadily
deepening moat around the company’s business
model and sharpened its differentiated positioning.

Value Sharing

Best in class profitability, reduced cost of capital due
to amore predictable and resilient business, and high
cash conversion on account of superior execution
have resulted in a high return on equity. All this and
a shareholder-friendly capital allocation policy have
boosted the company’s relationship capital with
shareholders.

The investments in people, research and innovation,
and intellectual property creation are all charged

off and not capitalized. The company’s capital
expenditure to support its growth — manufacturing
capital — towards building campuses, Agile
workspaces, innovation centers, and Pace Ports is
modest relative to Its size. That and the focus on
pursuing organic business growth opportunities
maximizes the free cash flow available for distribution
to shareholders.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS’ physical operations consume social capital

in the form of license to operate in each of the
communities where it has its facilities, and natural
capital in terms of its environmental footprint. TCS
enhances its social capital with local communities
across the world by investing in areas such as
education, skill development, employability, health
and wellness, and the environment, mapped to UN
Development Goals®. On the environmental front,
TCS has a systematic program to reduce its carbon
and resource consumption footprint — including the
use of green IT, green buildings, intelligent energy
management using its own loT-based solution and
water and waste recycling. It has also been reducing
business travel through greater use of video and
audio conferencing and other collaboration tools.
The near complete switchover to virtual ways

of interaction during the pandemic is expected

to continue in the longer term, resulting in a
structurally smaller environmental footprint in the
future.

TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted

in deep and enduring customer relationships, a
vibrant and engaged workforce, a steady expansion
of its addressable market, a strong reputation as

a responsible corporate citizen and a proven track
record in delivering longer term stakeholder value.
All of this has significantly enhanced the company’s

 

® 102-12:TCS ts a signatory to the UN Global Compact and aligned
with its ten principles. It is also one of the earliest companies in India
to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP}

brand value, which is a quantifiable measure of its
social and relationship capital with stakeholders.

Strategy for Sustainable Growth

Customer-centricity is at the heart of TCS’

strategy, organization structure and investment
decisions. TCS’ customer-centric worldview helps
spot trends early, embrace business opportunities

by making the right investments and mitigating

risks while discharging its social and environmental
responsibilities. The company invests in broadening
and deepening customer relationships by continually
looking for new areas in their value chain where

the company can add value, proactively investing in
building newer capabilities, reskilling its workforce
and launching newer services, solutions, products
and platforms. Over time, TCS’ participation has also
extended into the departmental budgets of other
stakeholders within the customers’ organizations —
business heads, CMOs, CROs, COOs, CFOs and even
CEOs. This has not only embedded TCS deeper into
their businesses but has also resulted in a continual
increase in services consumed, revenues and share
of wallet, as evidenced by the client metrics reported
every quarter and every year.

At an aggregate level, this strategy has resulted in
deep and enduring customer relationships, a vibrant
and engaged workforce, a steady expansion of the
addressable market, and a proven track record in
delivering longer term stakeholder value.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 103
Enabling Investments

TCS pioneered the use of the word ‘digital’ to
describe the new family of technologies that
emerged in the last few years. Quick to recognize
their potential, the company made investments
ahead of time’ in developing relevant capabilities

— interms of reskilling the workforce, research
and innovation around the creative use of these
technologies to address business problems across
different industries, building collaborative workspaces
and innovation centers, IP in these new areas, and
alliances and partnerships. Those early investments
have given TCS a head start in participating in its
customers’ growth and transformation journeys.

To showcase the outcomes of its own Research and
Innovation, and to provide ideation and prototyping
spaces for collaborating with customers on their
innovation, TCS has been investing in creating a
network of Pace Ports in all its major markets. These
co-innovation and advanced research centers consist
of TCS COIN™ accelerators, Agile workspaces,
academic research labs and an innovation showcase,
and will help engage customers through the
discovery, definition, refinement and delivery phases
of innovation. The company set up its first Pace Port
in Tokyo (FY 2019) and the second in New York (FY
2020), at the Tata Innovation Center in the Cornell
Tech campus. In FY 2021, three new Pace Ports — at

 

? Ref MD&A — AR FY 2011, CEO's Letter — AR FY 2012

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Amsterdam, Pittsburgh and Toronto respectively — became operational digitally.

TCS continued to invest in intellectual property and launched several new products within the ignio™ suite, the
TCS BaNCS™ suite and the TCS ADD suite. There were also new service offerings launched, catering to the

   

ra

: @ Cornell Tech TCS’ first
é.

   
   
 
    

Largest pace port in

; . Pace Port
collaboration with the

TCS’ first

    
     

    
    

universities of Toronto @ Carnegie European “a
and Waterloo Mellon Pace Port
University

1 In pipeline

TCS Digital Library: An interactive channel that delivers
cutting-edge thought leadership digitally

® TCS COIN™ Accelerator: An entrepreneurial forum to bring
together client teams to solve specific customer problems

e TCS Rapid Labs: An innovation factory for quick turnaround of © TCS Agile Workspace: An environment to produce
proofs of concepts and MVPs working-quality pilots and MVP software in short and fast
increments

TCS Academic Research Lab: A collaborative medium to strike

partnerships with academia ® TCS Think Space: A space for researchers and analysts to
create new solutions by leveraging digital forces and design
thinking methodology

TCS Innovation Showcase: A sensory experience of TCS’
ongoing research and innovation stories

TCS Pace Port™ Network: Integrating Capabilities to Drive Innovation

Management Discussion and Analysis | 104
evolving needs of customers during the pandemic.
To gain leadership in the rapidly expanding services
opportunity around the hyperscale cloud platforms,
TCS launched dedicated practice units around AWS,
Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform. Each
unit is a full-service, multidisciplinary organization
offering customers the full range of transformational
and operational services on the respective
technology stacks, spanning advisory services,
migration, application and data modernization,
including SaaS and enterprise productivity suites,
infrastructure, cyber-security and edge.

TCS also operationalized ten new Threat
Management Centres (TMCs) across locations -
including the US, UK, Spain and India - for providing
cyber security services locally to its enterprise
customers. These centres will focus on providing
cyber security solutions and services, including
managed detection and response services, incident
management and breach support, on-demand cyber
vigilance services, digital forensics and regulatory
compliance.

Thought Leadership

TCS’ Business 4.0™ thought leadership
framework ® to guide customers in their growth
and transformation journeys was refreshed in
FY 2021 to include the defining attributes of

 

® Ref ARFY 2018

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

successful organizations: purpose-driven, resilient
and adaptable. These attributes develop from
following four behaviors: mass personalize, leverage
ecosystems, embrace risk and create exponential
value. This is accomplished by harnessing the
abundance of resources — compute power, storage,
talent, market reach — created by the convergence
of intelligence, agility, automation and cloud.

In addition to this, TCS articulated its three-
horizon cloud transformation journey roadmap

to guide customers in their core transformation
and cloud investments. While these provide a

way for customers to think through their digital
transformation journeys at a business model

level, TCS’ thought-leading execution framework
consisting of the Location Independent Agile
model and the Machine First™ Delivery Model
found significant traction in FY 2021, as customers
sought greater operational resiliency and efficiency.
Operating model transformations using a Machine
First approach were seen by customers as
foundational for their growth and transformation
initiatives.

TCS’ Location Independent Agile model allows large
transformational programs to be delivered by globally
distributed teams working collaboratively in an

Agile mode, resulting in significant speed to market,
reduced risk and enhanced customer experiences.
The underlying project management methodology,
governance structures, processes and controls, and

security protocols were extended to implement
SBWS, a fully location-agnostic model for remote
working that lends further resilience to the delivery
model.

Building on the success of its SBWS model, TCS is
now further innovating with service delivery models,
launching talent clouds, which enable greater
fungibility of talent, resulting in faster project ramp-
ups and better delivery outcomes for customers
while resulting in higher employee satisfaction.

Outcomes

TCS’ thought leadership and investments have
made it the preferred innovation and transformation
partner to progressive enterprises across different
industry verticals. Customers bank on TCS’
contextual knowledge and solutioning capabilities to
leverage new technologies to change their business
models, drive new revenue streams, strengthen
customer relationships by offering superior
experiences, or transform their operations.

This has increased demand for the entire gamut of
services, solutions, products and platforms offered by
TCS, resulting in a stronger order book, more robust
revenue growth, and improved market share. These
transformational engagements are raising TCS’
profile within C-suites, embedding its teams more
deeply within customers’ businesses and resulting in
greater predictability and resilience.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 105
TCS Strategy

mil Market Trends

 

® More and more industries are leveraging
technology to differentiate themselves

® Customers want solutions to business problems
and not just technology skills

® Non-ClO buyers emerging in enterprises

® Transformational partners selected based on
solution quality and time to market

® Greater platformization of business

® Pandemic disruption highlights need for
operational resilience and enterprise adaptability

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

ie TCS Approach

e Position as a growth and transformation partner
® More investment in research and innovation,
co-innovation and collaboration

© Domain-specific IP
© Greater focus on contextual knowledge
® Proactive solution selling

@ Full stakeholder services and solutions

e Leverage TCS’ contextual knowledge, Location
Independent Agile, Machine First Delivery Model
and Intellectual Property

@ Launch of cloud based platforms and new business
models

® Leverage IP portfolio

e Launch of SBLUS
® Greater focus on Location Independent Agile and MFDM
e Promote operating model transformation using Al

rN Outcomes

® Industry-defining mega deals

® Thinner competitive set

® Higher quality revenue

® More fulfilling work; better retention

e Expansion of addressable market

® More deeply embedded in customer's business;
greater resilience and visibility

® Higher profile, strategically more important
engagements

® Thinner competitive set

e Higher quality revenue

e Large deals that improve business visibility
e Expansion of addressable market
® Frees up spends for systems of differentiation

® Highlights company’s responsiveness
e Market share expansion

Management Discussion and Analysis | 106
FY 2021 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW:
HUMAN CAPITAL?

Talent Management

The ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain
talent is critical to TCS’ continued success. The
company’s HR strategy is focused on attracting the
best talent globally, reskilling and transforming the
workforce and providing a stimulating workplace,
which is flexible, nurtures social contract, fosters
innovation, and builds a result-oriented, high
performance culture. The progressive policies,
continual investment in upgrading employees’ skills
and the philosophy of empowering individuals and
helping them realize their potential have made TCS’

HR processes and outcomes an industry benchmark.

The SBWS operating model that was rolled out

in a record three weeks towards the end of the
last fiscal year, proved its strength in FY 2021,
enabling every activity that hitherto required
physical presence, to be executed remotely. Freed
from the constraints of physical location, TCS
launched an innovative concept of talent clouds
or virtual teams of individuals who are physically
distributed across locations, but made available to
any project seamlessly, as per client demand and
project requirement. This has helped open up more
opportunities for employees to explore, across

 

* 103-2, 103-3

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

industries, domains and markets, while enabling
better utilization of smaller talent pools.
Customers are particularly delighted by the
faster project ramp-ups that this model enables,
and the superior outcomes.

TCS also announced Vision 25x25, wherein

by year 2025, only 25% of the workforce will
need to be physically present in TCS offices at
any point, and an employee needs to spend no
more than 25% of their time in a TCS office to
be 100% productive. This is expected to make
a significant difference to employees’ quality
of life, open up opportunities to demographic
segments disadvantaged by the current way of
working, help enhance TCS’ ability to attract
and retain diverse talent further and reduce its
environmental footprint.

Pandemic Support

Employee health and wellbeing continued to be
a key priority in FY 2021. In addition to existing
health care benefits, which are a benchmark in
the industry, the company launched several
initiatives to help employees receive prompt
medical attention. Besides a medical helpline,
TCS partnered with leading healthcare chains to
provide ambulance services, hospital admission
assistance and home healthcare services to
employees in India.

Global, Diverse Workforce
‘inp 488,649
cen 9 employees

154 36.5: })

; oa women
nationalities

43 million 457

(mai) learning hours N trained
___. logged —— in Agile

3 7 Ox+ employees
trained in new technologies
|

Talent Retention

a> 7 ° o% Attrition in IT services

Lee

 

Management Discussion and Analysis | 107
TCS also set up first-line COVID-19 Care Centers at
its premises in 11 cities in India to help employees
and their dependents quarantine safely and receive
medical attention. The functioning of the existing
Occupational Health Centers (OHC) was revisited to
ensure better preparedness for medical emergencies

INDIA
<30 31%
years 25%
30-40 a
years 10%
40-50 —
years 1%

>50 ea
years | 0.1%

EUROPE
<30 15%
years 14%
years 13%
40-50 —— 16%
years 6%
>50 a 12%
years A%

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

from a COVID-19 perspective, with round the clock
availability of OHC doctors, and tele medicine.

Thousands of employees and their families who were
stranded overseas due to flight cancelations were
repatriated through the Vande Bharat Mission. TCS

NORTH AMERICA
<30 16%
years 6%
30-40 a 2:
years 8%
40-50 TD 2
years 5%
>50 ND 6:
years 5%

APAC

<30 15%
years 17%
years 19%
40-50 —

years 6%

>50 a cx

years 1%

TCS Employees by Region, Age and Gender

provided self-help resources and counselling services
to help employees overcome mental and emotional
challenges through the TCS Cares initiative.

A break-up of the workforce by region, age and
gender is provided in the charts below’®.

UNITED KINGDOM
<30 13%
years 7%
30-40 a:
years 9%
40-50 a 2
years 6%
>50 ED 12:
years A%

EMERGING MARKETS
<30 25%
years 15%

30-40 2:
years 12%

40-50 =e:
years A%
>50 | a
years 2%

Hi Male Mj Female

 

* 102-8

Management Discussion and Analysis | 108
Talent Acquisition’

TCS’ talent acquisition strategy is to identify, engage
and hire Top Talent with the right competencies
required by the business at the right time to promote
future business growth. TCS continues to be the
Employer of Choice and delivers a meaningful
experience to associates and business through an
agile, and data driven ecosystem.

  

TCS National Qualifier Test

This nationwide online test
administered by TCS 1ON™ has
helped TCS tap into the larger
national talent pool and boosted
the quality of entry-level talent.
The FY 2021 was fully virtual, so
students could attend it from the
safety and comfort of their homes.

® India:

® Participation by 368,894
students

® 3,157 colleges represented

@ 1,302 internships, incl

® 686 institutes

® 1,069 student workshops,
120,996 students

e 524 Faculty Development
Programs; 20,306 teachers

The company remains the preferred employer

at leading engineering campuses in India. The
company’s college recruitment efforts in USA,
Canada, Latin America, China and Hungary have
been progressing well with very encouraging
outcomes. TCS was one of the largest job creators
in IT services in several major markets. In the United
States, TCS has hired over 21,500 employees over
the last five years.

Academic Interface Program

TCS partners with academic institutions to enhance their

curriculum and pedagogy. Activities include workshops,
internships, sponsorship of contests, faculty development programs,
research scholarships, curriculum review and launch of new programs.

® Outside India
® 422 institutes

® 330 student workshops;
21,991 students

@ 10 Faculty Development
Programs; 651 teachers

® 296 intermships

20 global interns

@ 2,332 associates are pursuing higher studies under
the TCS Higher Education program

 

1102-9

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

In FY 2021, the company had a net addition of
40,185 employees to its global workforce.

Gamified hiring

Programming contests to spot top talent

e@ 3,708 Gamified hiring offers made

e@ 354,000+ registrations from 98 countries
in CodeVita’s 9" season

S!%. Launchpad 2021

[ 95 Exclusive Campus Commune channel to
engage 2020-21 batch through blogs,
quizzes, podcasts, webinars, to nurture the talent
and also prepare them for the upcoming National
Qualifier Test (NQT).
® 247,000+ students of the FY 2021 batch
participated

Management Discussion and Analysis | 109
Talent Development”?

60
ys)

Hi Male Ml Female

FY 2021 Average learning hours per employee*#

Middle

TCS takes a purpose-centric approach to learning
and development that leverages horizontal
collaboration and the abundance of internal talent in
an ecosystem where the training is just-in-time, Just-
for-me and just-enough.

In response to COVID-19, rigor in learning was
intensified, with a focus on building deeper and
higher competencies. Starting with the post-offer
engagement to onboarding — the entire process
has been 100% virtual. This virtual ecosystem has
enabled trainees to become SBWS-enabled and
start their business journey immediately after
joining. In the new way of working, engagement with
learners has changed significantly.

@ Reinvention of teaching and assessment methods
with virtual breakout rooms, digital whiteboards,

 

2 103-2, 103-3
6 404-1

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

menti-meters, peer tagging, simulation, online
games etc.

@ Rollout of virtual versions of previously in-
person leadership and soft skills programs for
uninterrupted upskilling.

@ Segmentation of employees to achieve focused
learning objectives. Eg: by allocation status, by
experience levels, by extent of digital skills etc.

The Contextual Masters pool has grown to over
16,000 in FY 2021, further strengthening the
Company’s cadre of Growth and Transformation
leaders capable of engaging with CXOs on their
transformation agenda.

Talent Engagement

TCS has proactively reimagined employee
engagement with its “Engagement with Purpose”
model focused on health and wellbeing, lifelong
learning, career development, living TCS’ values,
social collaboration and community service. It is

a virtual, mass-personalized subscription-based
program with continuous real time feedback. The
company has meaningfully engaged with over
400,000 employees, helping foster togetherness
during trying times. The #OneTCS Channel has seen

very good response and has helped employees meet,

connect, learn, share and spend some time with each

other virtually. The Company’s internal associate
satisfaction survey PULSE showed the highest
associate satisfaction and engagement scores in the
last 13 years.

Some of the platforms and initiatives used by TCS to
enhance and enrich employee engagement are:

e Cara: Al-based HR assistant that answers
employee questions on HR policies.

Milo: Chatbot to facilitate the mentoring process.

Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social
collaboration within the organization, learning,
sharing and for rewards and recognition.

Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety
and security.

Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness
conscious employees and creates a culture of
fitness

Purpose4life: Forum for volunteering for
community projects in the areas of education,
health and environment.

Maitree: Community of TCSers and their families
who plan activities that help create a bond among
employees and promote work-life balance.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 110
PULSE: TCS’ annual employee engagement and
satisfaction survey is the organization’s formal
listening forum.

TCS Cares: Program aimed at creating robust
avenues to build an emotionally strong and
mentally resilient workforce.

Career Management

TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees grow
in their careers:

Xcelerate is an integrated platform to capture
associates’ aspirations and mapping them to future
Opportunities.

iConnect is a highly collaborative tool designed
to help employees reach out to senior mentors
for guidance on career paths, have face to face
dialogues about their role and career. It provides
flexibility for group mentoring as well as individual
mentoring.

Inspire is the high potential program for mid-
level employees. It helps identify high potentials
as early as possible, invest in them continuously,
enable accelerated growth, and transition them to
leadership roles, and reward and recognize their
efforts and success.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Talent Review is TCS’ process to assess and review
the leadership pool in the organization. It enables
leaders to share their career aspirations and
preferences of mobility, followed by an assessment
of their leadership attributes. The objective of

the program is to create and sustain a healthy
leadership pipeline.

Exciting Opportunities is the internal platform
to publish niche and critical requirements to

the leadership and high potential communities,
thereby facilitating talent mobility. This embodies
the company’s philosophy of giving the first right
of refusal for all leadership positions to internal
candidates, thereby enabling better leadership
development and building strong organizational
loyalty.

Competitive Compensation

TCS’ business model depends on its ability to attract
and retain talent in the highly competitive, global

market for software engineers with graduate or
post-graduate degrees in engineering and with
relevant technical skills.

Compensation levels are merit based, determined

by qualification, experience levels, special skills if

any, and individual performance. Compensation
structures are driven by prevailing practices in each

country that TCS operates in. The company regularly
benchmarks its compensation plans and benefits with
the market to ensure competitiveness.

Across the enterprise, remuneration is the same
for men and women working full-time, in the same
grade, in the same role, and at the same location".
Where relevant, the company publishes the raw
mean and median pay differences between genders
(not normalized for part-timers or grade and role
differences) on its own website as well as on public
sites,

The company offers a variety of benefits to full time
employees including parental leave!®. In FY 2021, a
total of 16,907 employees availed of parental leave.
Of these, 116 were men and 16,791 were women.
Of the 18,767 employees whose parental leave
ended during the year, 127 were men and 18,640
were women. Of these, 91 men and 16,176 women
employees rejoined work, amounting to a retention
rate of 72% and 87% respectively.

At TCS, three months’ notice is required from
either side for termination®®. In India, 0.03% of the
workforce is unionized?”. Although most of the

 

% 405-2
© 401-3
© 402-1
” 102-41

Management Discussion and Analysis | 111
organization's activities are performed by full-time
employees, TCS uses contractors, especially for
short-term assignments or those requiring skills not
internally available.

In FY 2021, the company launched Elevate, a new
merit-based, democratized and transparent talent
framework designed to establish a tighter linkage
between learning, skill development, career and
compensation. Over 138,000 employees were
onboarded in this program.

Talent Retention

TCS’ empowering culture, philosophy of investing

in people, career growth opportunities, and
progressive HR policies have resulted in consistently
high retention levels and developed a strong
employer brand. In recent years, the company’s
investments in organic talent development and
initiatives like Contextual Masters have further
reassured employees that the company values them
for the contextual knowledge they possess and is
prepared to invest in equipping them with new-age
technology skills that they do not have.

This has made TCS the employer of choice, and its
employee retention record an industry benchmark.
In FY 2021, TCS'IT services attrition rate was at an
all-time low of 7.2%.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Talent Diversity’®

TCS is an equal opportunity employer, embracing
diversity in race, nationality, religion, ethnicity,
marital status, gender, age, physical ability, and sexual
orientation.

Through a variety of initiatives and campaigns,

the company celebrates the diversity within the
workforce and promotes inclusion. The company
has a well-defined and progressive Diversity and
Inclusion Policy with a focus on gender diversity
(men, women, non-binary gender), persons with
disability and neuro diversity, sexual orientation,
diversity of the mind and generational diversity.
This includes parental leave and insurance cover
for LGBTQ+ partners and gender re-assignment
surgery, besides equal opportunity and fair practice.
TCS’ Center of Excellence for Accessibility works on
IT solutions for differently abled individuals, aiding
their integration into the workforce.

The company believes that its new hybrid working
model as envisaged by Vision 25x25 is inherently
more inclusive, and will help various demographic
groups disadvantaged by the old way of working,

to overcome those constraints and pursue fulfilling
careers at TCS, further boosting workforce diversity.

 

# 103-2, 103-3

Towards creating a more inclusive and equitable
workplace, the company has programs like:.

@ Champions of Equity, a company-wide campaign
that entails senior leaders pledging to fair and
equitable practices and serving as role models to
the rest of the organization.

Allies of Diversity, a larger dialog on diversity and
inclusion that also includes leaders from customer
organizations.

Race Education, a learning initiative to build
awareness around socio-cultural understanding of
race and its manifestation at the workplace.

Women in the Workforce

TCS is one of the world’s largest employers of
women. The company has multiple initiatives for
helping women employees realize their potential,
while striking a good work-life balance. These include
discussion circles and support groups to help women
through major life stages, re-orientation programs
to reconnect employees after long childcare leave,
interactions with inspirational women leaders, and
special leadership development programs to address
the needs and aspirations of women at different
stages in their careers, learning modules to equip
mid-level managers to work with diverse teams, tie-
ups with day care centers near the workplace, virtual
support groups and parenting workshops.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 112
iExcel is TCS’ flagship program to groom mid-

level women managers for business leadership
roles through an immersive curriculum designed

to improve problem solving, learning agility and
innovation. Till date, over 969 employees have
undergone this program, including 343 women
leaders in the virtual editions organized in FY 2021.

These programs are yielding encouraging results and
are expected to steadily increase gender diversity
especially at senior levels in the coming years. A few
key outcomes are detailed below:

Participation: The overall percentage of women in
the workforce has gone up from 33.8% in FY
2016 to 36.5% in FY 2021. There has been
significant improvement in women’s participation
across different levels over the last five years:

 

Junior Hi Middle i Senior

Women in the Workforce

Role Mobility: 67% of the participants in the iExcel
program reported role movements thereafter. 42%
experienced upward progression, 4% had enhanced
responsibilities, while 21% had lateral movements.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

@ Mentorship: Participants in these programs are
also helping develop and advance others. 343
iExcellers are active mentors, having mentored
2,310 employees till date, an average of 7
mentees per iExcel mentor.

@ Innovation: This is a high focus area, helping

TCS gain a differentiated positioning in the market.

Of the 2,837 unique inventors responsible for the
1,850 granted patents till date, 607 are women.

Occupational Health and Safety’®

TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and
Safety policy and supporting processes to ensure
the safety and well-being of its employees. Safety
lead and lag indicators are measured across

the organization and reported. The board-level
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee reviews
the company’s health and safety performance

on aregular basis. Over 96% of the workforce Is
represented in joint management-employee health
and safety committees”° that monitor, advise and
drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.

TCS ts certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational
Health and Safety Management System standard
across 120 of its facilities worldwide. With SBWS
becoming the new normal, employee engagement
programs transitioned to be able to address the

 

© 103-2, 103-3
® 403-4

most material issues for employees while they

work from home. Ergonomics and general safety

at home, stretches and fitness, including yoga and
meditation practices, mental health — were the most
relevant topics which drew employee participation.
Employees’ families, including children, were also
engaged in such sessions.

SBWS Ergo track was instituted to help employees
understand ergonomic stressors and equip them
with ways to adopt the best feasible posture while
working from home. Ergonomics @ Home webinars
were conducted every week, reaching over 10,000
employees. There were also sessions on ergonomics
for employees’ kids. A series of self-help tools were
created for employees including tips and videos

on home ergonomic postures and workstation
stretches, blogs posts on ergonomics and wellbeing
and an ergo self-assessment quiz. The program has
reached over 27,000 employees since the start of
SBWS.

Awards and Accolades for Human Capital

@ Given the Best of Best award by the Association of
Talent Development for the second time in a row,
for sustained excellence in learning integration
and effectiveness, strategic value of learning and
individual and company performance.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 113
Awarded 18 Stevies® at the 2020 Great
Employers Awards; six Gold Stevies, eight Silver
Stevies and four Bronze Stevies in recognition

of TCS’ talent management, CSR and business
practices that have helped it attract retain the best
talent to build a global, diverse workforce, and a
vibrant workplace.

Won the Top Women Award for Corporate
Citizenship in South Africa, hosted by Standard
Bank, in recognition of its role in advancing women
to leadership roles.

Named a Global Top Employer by the Top
Employers Institute for the sixth successive year
for its employee-friendly workplace practices

and continued investments in building up talent
across the organization through professional
development initiatives and digital skills programs.
In addition, it has been certified as a Top Employer
in Europe, UK, North America, APAC, MEA and
LATAM. It was ranked the #1 Top Employer in

the US, UK, Finland, Switzerland, Singapore,
Philippines, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Ecuador, Chile
and Australia in the country-wise rankings.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

@ Won three awards for talent management and

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

excellence in learning at the 2020 Brandon Hall
Group Awards; two Gold awards for ‘Best Advance
in Creating a Talent Strategy’ and ‘Best Learning
Program Supporting a Change Transformation
Business Strategy’ and a Silver award in the ‘S
category ‘Best Use of Games and Simulations for

Learning’.
a
This is a milestone year for TCS Research and
Innovation (R&l). TCS’ first research lab was
established forty years ago at the Tata Research,
Design and Development Centre (TRDDC) in Pune.
TCS Research marked its 40th year by adopting a
new brand identity with the tagline ‘Inventing for
Impact’. TCS R&I made a significant contribution
towards mitigating the effect of the pandemic across
areas such as drug candidate molecule discovery,
COVID data management, diagnostic kits and
epidemiological study.

Sustained investments over the years have resulted
in a significant scaling up of TCS’ R&l footprint over
the last four decades. Today, TCS has research labs
and innovation centers around the world, some
deeply embedded within business units, some in
collaboration with academia, as part of Pace Ports,
as well as dedicated Agile Innovation Centers for
customers. The company has over 6,000 inventors
and innovators working on advancing scientific
knowledge and solving real-world problems.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

@
Horizon

O01

Derivative Innovations

Investments in labs across key business units
to deliver innovative solutions to solve
current customer problems. Several of TCS’
IP-based products released new features:

e@ ignio™ released features related to cognitive
procurement, digital workspace and assurance,
enabling customers to leverage the power of Al
in business and IT functions.

@ TCS MasterCraft™ launched new features for

application development, modernization and
enterprise data transformation; strengthened its
go-to-market strategy with Cloud Service
Providers (hyperscalers).

Jile™ MarketPlace was launched to facilitate
integration to various commercial and
open-source tools in agile project management.

  

A

The company’s Chief Technology Officer oversees a three-horizon portfolio of investments spanning current
innovation, mid-term and long-term research:

4

TCS Portfolio of investments for innovations

Management Discussion and Analysis | 115
TCS R&l is building a rich pipeline of IP based assets consisting of patents, products
and platforms. To enable business alignment and to de-risk emerging technology
use, TCS’ New Products and Services Development framework monitors the
pipeline of evolving, future-focused offerings. This has resulted in a further
expansion of the IP portfolio across a range of technologies and industry domain
processes. As of March 31, 2021, the company has filed for 5,879 patents and
has been granted 1,850 patents. TCS researchers presented over 240 papers at
premier research conferences and notable journals this year.

 
 
 
 
 
  

SUBJECT CLUSTER

) Data Science
Internet of Things 4
User experience
Artificial Intelligence (

/Machine Learning

Information
Technology
Embedded Systems

& Robotics

Sensing
Technology
5G Technology

& Application

Blockchain Technology
& Application
Software
Services

Software
Engineering

TCS' Patent Wall: Breakup by Themes

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 116
Broad-basing Innovation

Every key business unit has its own innovation
program, led by a unit-level CTO. These units
leverage their deep domain expertise, customer-
specific contextual knowledge and the research
outcomes in emerging technologies from Corporate
R&l as well as the TCS Co-Innovation Network to
come up with innovative solutions for customers in
their respective segments. Examples include:

TCS DynaPORT™: This solution from the Travel,
Transportation and Hospitality unit is for seaports
and terminal operators. This one-stop digital terminal
operating system (TOS) streamlines order-to-invoice
processes and supports multi-modal and multi-
purpose requirements. It currently powers over 80
terminals across the globe.

TCS Omnistore™: With TCS OmniStore, retailers can
orchestrate unified omnichannel customer journeys,
build new services and apps quickly without worrying
about channel constraints, and ensure their stores
are ‘always on’ to drive unique, interconnected
micro-experiences.

TCS Consent Management Solution: This helps
organizations automate compliance towards latest
privacy regulations while reducing associated costs.
It offers a range of capabilities such as consent
collection and enforcement, data subject rights, data
masking and data discovery.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Innovation Ecosystem

TCS’ Co-Innovation (COIN™) ecosystem continues
to expand. It now consists of over 2,400 start-ups
distributed across innovation hubs all around the
world. The global Academic COIN program now has
67 active partnerships with various institutions. New
partnerships were forged with KTH Royal Institute of
Technology, Sweden, National Institute of Industrial
Engineering (NITIE), Mumbai, and IIT Jodhpur, among
others.

Customer Engagement

TCS Research and Innovation connects with
customers and partners through several channels.
TCS Innovation Forum 2020, its flagship event, was
reimagined in a format that was optimal for digital
channels. Over 3,700 clients and partners attended
the series across editions, totaling 4x attendance
over the physical event in 2019. A number of
Innovation Days, Round Tables and seminars were
held for customers around the world.

TCS Pace Ports™ were launched in Amsterdam,
Toronto and Pittsburgh. Pace Ports offer access

to COIN accelerators, academic research, design
thinking and agile workspaces and innovation
showcases, enabling faster innovation. This year Pace
Ports anchored 75 customer teams virtually.

TCS runs ideathons and hackathons almost every
week to build an innovation culture within the
organization and offer employees opportunities

to innovate within and outside their current
assignments. These crowdsource innovative ideas
from within TCS and have been very popular with
customers. Several customers have run challenges
and have been impressed by the number of novel
solutions or ideas TCSers have come up with.

Social Good

A number of assistive technologies have emerged
from TCS R&l, including Assisto (Speech aid for
Cerebral Palsy); VHAB (Immersive Physio); Verbose
(Speech-to-text); School at Home assistance for
disabled; Emotrain (Training for Autistic) and Home
Bound (COVID related remote medical assistance).
These were especially useful during the pandemic,
where much of the training and support for children
with special needs had to be virtual.

TCS’ Access Infinity platform that has been powering
the Sugamya Pustakalaya portal, won the Zero
Project Award this year. Launched by Daisy Forum
of India (DF), a not-for-profit organization with

a network of over 100 organisations working for
the welfare of the visually impaired, the portal has
674,795 books available for download for the print-
disabled community.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 117
Socially responsible initiatives launched include

the TCS Sustainathon, Seed.Lab and the Digital
Sustainability Index. TCS Sustainathon, in tts first
edition for Singapore, focused on reducing food
wastage. TCS and the Malaysian petroleum major
PETRONAS launched a Social Enterprise Education
Lab (SEEd.Lab), an end-to-end incubation program
for a group of young Malaysian to-be-entrepreneurs
and to create employment opportunities for others.

TCS and Auckland Business School Launched an
APAC-focused Digital Sustainability Index. The new
index will track the adoption and leverage of digital
technologies by enterprises for their growth and
transformation, and for discharging their social and
environmental responsibilities, to create longer term
value for all stakeholders.

Other investments in sustainability initiatives like
digital farming, the energy value chain, and water and
power savings, continue.

The TCS Research Scholar Program is in its 10th
year and has supported 350 scholars from 41
premier institutes till date. TCS’ researchers mentor
young social entrepreneurs solving socially relevant
problems at the TCS Foundation’s Digital Impact
Square (DISQ), Nashik. DISQ entrepreneurs came
up with innovative solutions for coping with the
pandemic.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS Suite of Products and Platforms

tCS BOLINCS”

e 19 new wins (50% of the new wins were on TCS
BaNCS Cloud) and 25 go lives in FY 2021

Highlights:

Banking: Serves more than 25% of the world
population. Two of the world's largest core
banking implementations run on TCS BaNCS,
processing 1 billion accounts

Capital Markets: Performs clearing and
settlement in over 20 markets worldwide.
Records 10 million trades per day (peak),
represents $40 trillion worth of AUC across
100 countries

Insurance: Administers over 20 million life,
annuity and pension policies; 135 million
property and casualty policies

Global Securities: It offers ready market
connectivity to 45+local markets for
settlements, with 8 of the top custodians
running on the solution

CCS iN

e Digital Glass room: Virtual learning platform,
made available to educational institutions across
the country shut down by lockdown, free of cost.
Garnered registrations from 37,000 institutions.
Remote internships for students across trending
domains guided by industry mentors, helped 2.6k
college students

e Assessment: 273 million+ candidates assessed
till date; 10.5 million+ answer books evaluated,
900,000 registrations for TCS NOT in FY
2021. Remote assessments served 28 million+
candidates. Socially distanced assessments for
in-center exams across 700+ cities through zero-
touch biometric, crowd management, process
digitization, which lead to 20 million+ youth
securing their future in academic admission / job
recruitment.

Learning: 12 million+ learners on the platform,
71,000 courses available, 490,000+ communities

Process Management: 700+ SMB clients, 145+
education ERP clients

@ 300+ new wins in India and 7 in International
market

Strategic partnerships in India with bodies like
National Skill Development Corporates (NSDC)
and the state governments of Kerala and
Telangana towards skills development

Management Discussion and Analysis | 118
 

World leading cognitive automation software for IT
and business operations. FY 2021 highlights:

50+ new wins; 180% YoY growth in channel
partners

Manages over 1.5 million technology resources
autonomously

84 patents filed to date; 30 granted

tcs ADD

e Comprehensive suite for digital transformation of
drug development and clinical trials

Executed 500 trials on ADD

Customers: 9 out of the top 10 pharma companies

e Key implementations: Redesigned operational
analytics for top 3 pharma, implemented advanced
submission planning for a pharma major’s
regulatory submission; rolled out cognitive
automation of pharmacovigilance for 62 studies ;
12k+ shipments completed ; 1Ok+ kits dispensed
;90%+ adherence rate on Decentralized Trials
solution; implemented eConsent for 11 studies

Set up COVID study on ADD in less than 10 days
for a leading Asia- based pharma major

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

tcs HOBS™

Plug and play SaaS based business platform to
digitally transform business, network and revenue
management domains of subscription-based
businesses

Prevented revenue leakage of over $100 million
and has delivered cost savings of over $25 million
for customers globally in FY 2021.

Serving 33+ clients, across Communications,
Utilities, Manufacturing and Personal Care; Serving
22 million+ subscribers, handling 145,000+
devices and processing 1.2 billiont+ events.

e 13 new wins and go-lives in FY 2021

0CS Twinx™

e Al powered system of actionable intelligence —
powered by an enterprise digital twin (customer,
product, process) to help business leaders simulate
and optimise enterprise decisions, predict and
proactively manage outcomes

e 7 newwins and 3 go-lives in FY 2021

jile

e SaaS-based, scalable Agile DevOps platform to
accelerate software development and delivery and
integrate DevOps tools

® 14,000+ active users till date

CCS Optumera™

e Al-powered retail optimization suite that
enables retailers to improve sales and margins
with integrated merchandising and supply chain
decisions.

@ 1 newwin and 2 go-lives in FY 2021

tCS OmniStore™

e Al-powered future commerce platform that
enables unified customer journeys by seamlessly
catering to new channels and brand expansions.

@ 1 newwin and 4 go-lives in FY 2021

UCS MasterCraft™

e Digital platform to optimally automate and
manage IT processes

e FY 2021 Highlights: 25 new wins, 96 billion+
records processed for data privacy, 5 billiont+
records processed for data quality, 57+ million
lines of code (mloc) analyzed, 5+ mloc generated

Management Discussion and Analysis | 119
tCS QUARTZ”

Intelligent smart contract development toolkits,
Integration solutions and ‘Designed for DLT’
business solutions that provides foundational
technology, tools and business components for
creating distributed ledger solutions across varied
industries

Built on the core principles of Coexistence,
Integration and Interoperability, Quartz enables
existing systems to coexist and integrate with
blockchain platforms and other messaging
networks

10 new wins and 2 go-lives in FY 2021

Awards and Accolades for Intellectual Capital

Awarded the Best Patents Portfolio in the Large
Enterprises (Information and Communications
Technology and Services) category at the
Confederation of Indian Industry (Cll) Industrial
Intellectual Property Awards 2020.

Won the CIO Magazine Innovation Award jointly
with Damen Shipyards, in the ‘Most Innovative B2B
Project or Program’ category, for Triton, Damen’s
connected vessel platform, designed and built by
TCS.

Won the Business Culture Award in the category
Best Use of Innovation for Business Culture, for

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

building a culture of innovation that welcomes new
ideas from across the organization, resulting in an
industry-leading portfolio of intellectual property.

Highly Commended in the category Best
Enterprise Al Solution at The Alconics Awards,

TCS Optumera™, an Al-powered retail
optimization suite, helps retailers make data-driven
decisions around right-sizing store space, shopper-
centric omni-channel assortments, dynamic
pricing strategies and compliance. It also won the
2021 Data Breakthrough Award in the category
Data Solution of the Year — Retail for empowering
retailers to execute integrated strategic decisions.

Won the 2021 ClO 100 Award for its Intelligent
Urban Exchange (IUX) for Workplace Resilience
software.

Won the 2021 loT Breakthrough Award in the
category Enterprise loT Management Innovation
for its Intelligent Urban Exchange (IUX) for
Workplace Resilience software.

Honored with the ClO Choice 2021 award in the
category Digital Transformation Enabler for its
investments in research and innovation, strong
domain knowledge across industries, rigor in
service delivery, and comprehensive portfolio of
services and platform solutions including IT and
advisory services, and digital workplace.

Conferred the ClO100 Special Award for Business
Transformers, IDG India’s annual award program

that recognizes and honors organizations and

their ClOs, for its digital transformation initiatives,
including its SBWS operating model, its digital talent
platform, and Al-led solution for timely financial
book closure.

Digitate, a software venture of TCS, was ranked
#37 among the Top 100 Software Companies of
2020 by The Software Report, recognized for the
rapid growth and market leadership of its ignio suite
within five years of launch.

Named the POS Technology of the Year at the
Retail Systems Awards 2020, TCS OmniStore™,
a flagship product of the TCS Algo Retail™ suite,
was recognized for its open architecture and fluid
technology stack that allows enterprises to quickly
build new journeys, services, and apps without
worrying about channel constraints; all this with
the flexibility of reusing existing investments.
TCS OmniStore™ also won the ICXA Award for
Excellence in Omnichannel Interactive Customer
Experience, for using interactive technologies to
create transcendent brand experiences across
channels.

TCS Connected Clinical Trials solution, part of
TCS ADD platform, won the 2020 Citeline Award
in the category ‘Best Patient-facing Technology
Initiative’ for providing a positive experience to
patients in clinical trials and driving mneeneh

Management Discussion and Analysis | 120
FY 2021 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW:
RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL

Customers

Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ business
model, organization structure and investment
decisions. The philosophy has been to delight them
by delivering superior outcomes, and build strong,
enduring relationships. Additionally, the company
seeks to expand and deepen customer engagements
by continually looking for new areas in the
customer’s business where the company can add

value, proactively invest in building newer capabilities,

and launch new services and solutions to participate
in those opportunities.

Client Metrics

il |

FY 2017 FY 2021

 

© $100 million+ clients Mi $50 million+ clients

Integrated Anmuall Report 2020-21.

Over time, this has resulted in an expanding
participation in the departmental spends of a

broad range of stakeholders across the enterprise,
including business heads, CMOs, CROs, COOs, CFOs
and even CEOs. It has also resulted in a continual
expansion of customer relationships in terms of the
services consumed, revenue and share of wallet,

as evidenced by the movement in the large client
metrics over the last 5 years.

TCS was ranked #1 in Customer Satisfaction

across Europe for the eighth consecutive year in

a large, independent survey of 1700 CxOs of top

IT spending organizations by Whitelane Research.
Additionally, in the individual country rankings,

TCS was ranked #1 by customers in UK, France,
Germany, Austria, Switzerland Netherlands, Belgium,
Luxembourg and the Nordics.

Suppliers?"

TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green
Procurement policy outline its commitment to
making its supply chain more responsible and
sustainable. In FY 2021, the company integrated
sustainability, safety and environmental requirements
in its online vendor management system across the
various stages of vendor lifecycle — selection, review
and renewal.

 

21 308-1

Supplier engagement includes defining product
specifications on safety/environment, vendor
compliance review, outlining mandatory policy

and process requirements, desktop assessments,
audits and performance review on these criteria.
TCS’ responsible sourcing program encourages its
suppliers to go beyond 100% regulatory compliance,
and strive for better sustainability performance.

Investors

TCS is seen as a benchmark in transparency and
disclosures, publicly communicating its longer-

term strategy, qualitative aspects of the demand
outlook, risks and opportunities. The company has a
robust investor outreach program through which it
engages with a broad range of investors domestically
and overseas. These efforts towards removing
information asymmetries and helping investors
arrive at a fair valuation of the company’s stock have
resulted in TCS topping various regional investor
polls conducted by publications such as Institutional
Investor, FinanceAsia and AsiaMoney.

In FY 2021, TCS was quick to embrace virtual
meetings for its investor outreach, including
meetings, virtual NDRs and conferences. TCS was
also the first corporate in India to hold a virtual
Annual General Meeting last year.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 121
The following table provides the number of investor
and analyst interactions by category in FY 2021:

Particulars

Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 a
2021

 

 

 

Meetings and Calls 59 29 38 95} 221
Conferences A7| 207}; 111 62) 427
Sell Side Analysts 8 8 27 5 48
Total 114) 244| 176) 162| 696

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Quarterly, half-yearly, and annual results are
intimated to the stock exchanges, published in
leading Indian newspapers, emailed to analysts and
investors who subscribe to the service, and posted
on the website. Half-yearly results are mailed to
shareholders, along with a message from the MD on
the Company's performance.

The quarterly earnings release is accompanied by a
press conference, which is streamed live on
www.tcs.com, and an earnings call that is webcast
on the website. Material developments during the
quarter that might impact revenue or earnings

are intimated to the stock exchanges and through
the website. Quarterly results, regulatory filings,
transcripts of earnings call, Investor Relations
presentations and schedules of analyst and investor
interactions are available at https://www.tcs.com/
investor-relations

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Brand Building

TCS’ marketing organization aims to elevate the
relevance and vitality of the TCS brand, articulate
and drive its purpose, deploy cutting-edge
marketing technologies to enhance its targeting and
amplification capabilities, enable sales, and promote
sustainable practices. In FY 2021, TCS’ marketing
organization quickly pivoted to meet the accelerated
digital push during the pandemic and strengthened
its growth and transformation positioning. Key
highlights of the year are:

Full Pivot to Digital

industry events, client workshops, virtual client
visits; 500+ events, 20,000 participants, 2,900
client and prospect accounts engaged

Digitally enabled customer engagement —
Full deployment of digital marketing for sales
enablement, including 500+ campaigns in
account-based marketing and 50,000 customer
touch points

Enabled global marathons go virtual — Virtual
running apps, digital and physical running
experiences created

Rapid shift to digital events — Innovation Forums,

Breaking out

Leading the narrative with thought leadership —
New Beginning, Vision 25X25, Secure Borderless
Workspaces™, Business 4.0™

Launched the ‘Transforming India’ campaign —
Integrated campaign across digital and television
with 1,700 spots; reached 1.6 million high affinity
TV audiences; 111 million impressions garnered
across digital platforms; over 1 million website
clicks generated

Global Media Engagement -— Leading the
conversation during the pandemic, positioning TCS
as a thought leader in technology transformation.
This resulted in a greater share of voice with over
50,000 mentions and 4,000 unique stories.

Social Media success — The company used social
media channels effectively to amplify its narratives.
Its stakeholder engagement resulted in garnering
over 5 million followers on LinkedIn, and 100
million organic impressions.

Driving Associate Engagement and Connect

@ Launched the #OneTCS platform: A medium
to drive employee engagement, connection
and motivation. An enterprise-wide, arts-driven
talent hunt was launched; interviews and online
interaction with celebrity sportspersons, lifestyle

Management Discussion and Analysis | 122
gurus to keep the #OneTCS platform vibrant
for employees. There were 6.5 million unique
engagements on this platform.

Townhalls, events, consistent multi-channel
communication: These included celebrating
milestones such as achieving the goal of Enterprise
Agile by 2020, and 10,000 Contextual Masters

Pandemic communication with clarity to inform
and connect: Welfare programs, COVID-19
response initiatives, structured employee well-
being program via TCS Cares

Unique usage of external channels to drive
employee engagement

Brand launch

TCS adopted a new brand statement, Building on
Belief, to convey how its partnership with customers
goes beyond technology deployment. It helps them
make a meaningful difference, translating their
aspiration into reality. The new statement conveys
how TCS builds on their ambition and optimism to
transform their business for the better, the impact of
which is felt by their customers and the communities
they serve. It also reflects TCS' own belief that it,
along with its customers, can harness collective
knowledge to innovate in ways that result in better
futures for individuals, communities and the planet.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Details of TCS’ new brand articulation and purpose can be found here: https://www.tcs.com/buildingonbelief.

Refer to the Panel Discussion on Building on Belief (Page 24), featuring N G Subramaniam, Chief Operating
Officer, K Ananth Krishnan, Chief Technology Officer and Krishnan Ramanujam, President — Business and
Technology Services

Brand Value

TCS’ reputation for customer-centricity, domain depth and execution excellence have made it the preferred
growth and transformation partner to leading corporations across the world. It is also recognized as a top
employer brand across the major markets it operates in, including North America, Europe, UK, India, Latin
America and Australia, among others.

TCS Brand Value

Building on Belief

TCS is among the Top 3 Brands in IT Services and its brand value
grew by $1.4 billion in FY 2021

OBAL TOP EMPLOYER SUPERBRAND IN US
Ree UN ar®
REPU MU

Winner of 2020 Gartner Communications Award for
Excellence in Building a Corporate Brand

 

Management Discussion and Analysis | 123
Its purpose-driven community outreach and corporate social responsibility
initiatives across the world have earned it local recognition and goodwill. The
company’s high standing in the investor community is evidenced by the top ranking
it has been consistently receiving in surveys across Asia.

The cumulative effect of all the goodwill and recognition from these different
stakeholders, and concerted efforts by the company’s marketing organization have
helped put TCS among the Top 3 brands in IT Services by brand value.

According to Brand Finance, TCS’ brand value grew by $1.4 billion in FY 2021, the
highest absolute growth among the 25 companies assessed, that too in a
challenging year when the brand value of IT services companies collectively
dropped by 3 percent. Further, at 10 percent growth over the prior year, TCS has
outperformed its other two peers among the Top 3 brands in IT services.

TCS Brand Valuation
$ billion

FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY

2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

 

Source:Brand Finance

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Awards and Accolades for Relationship Capital

Partners

Won the 2020 SAP® Pinnacle Award in the category Integrated Delivery Partner
of the Year, in recognition of its outstanding contributions as an SAP partner,
dedication to teamwork, innovative approach and capacity to challenge what is
possible, in helping customers achieve their goals.

Named the Global System Integrator of the Year 2020 by HPE in recognition
of its outstanding performance, commitment to customer excellence, focus on
growth, innovation, and professional achievements.

Won 2020 Pega Partner Award for Excellence in Growth and Delivery for
leveraging Pega technologies to drive successful digital transformation programs
for joint clients in the insurance, manufacturing and telecommunications
industries.

Awarded the 2020 Canada IMPACT Award for Datacenter Migration by
Microsoft Corporation for driving strong business outcomes for its customers,
including enhanced security, increased agility, more resiliency, strong TCO
benefits and improved governance through both repeatable solutions and
transformational wins.

Recognized by Amazon Web Services (AWS) as the 2020 AWS Migration
Success Partner of the Year in India, for TCS’ commitment to excellence in
helping customers successfully migrate and manage their core applications on
the cloud.

Recognized as a Solution Plus Partner by Intel’s Winners’ Circle Program, for
contributions to the acceleration of #5G and virtual network transformation.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 124
@ Won the 2020 Salesforce Partner Innovation Award in the Media Industry
category for helping Equifax UK deliver enhanced customer experiences,

Brand

Ranked among the Top 3 brands in IT services by Brand Finance; TCS clocked the
highest absolute brand value growth in the sector in 2020 and was named the
fastest growing brand in the industry over the last decade (2010-2020).

Named a Superbrand in the US and in the UK, on the strength of its brand
reputation, business performance, industry-leading job creation, scale of
employee training and development, and commitment to corporate social
responsibility initiatives.

Ranked among the Top 100 US brands, across all industries, by Brand Finance for
the sixth year in a row. TCS was ranked #59, up two places from last year.

Won 2 Stevies at the 2020 American Business Awards®, for the 2019 TCS New
York City Marathon app. TCS received a Gold Stevie® in the category Mobile
Marketing Campaign of the Year and a Silver Stevie in the category Best User
Experience.

Ranked at second place for the Analyst Relations Team of The Year award by
the Institute of Industry Analyst Relations, based on their poll of over 100 top
industry analysts.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

@ Listed among the Top 10 in five categories — Customer Favourite, Best AR
Team, Biggest Improver, Analyst Advocacy Award and Overall Champion, in a
survey covering over 300 analysts globally, by The Analyst Observatory at the
University of Edinburgh Business School. Notably, this is an unaided measure
of analyst mindshare of the larger universe of software vendors, technology
providers, hyperscalers, telecom companies and system integrators.

Won the 2020 Gartner Communications Award in the category ‘Excellence
in Building a Corporate Brand’ for its multi-phased communication strategy,
centered around its Business 4.0™ thought-leadership framework.

TCS Transforming India campaign has won the Best Integrated Campaign Award
- Gold at the Exchange4Media - India PR and Corporate Communications
Conference oe 4

Management Discussion and Analysis | 125
 

Top: Open Agile collaborative workspaces to support all stages of the innovation lifecycle

Bottom: Covid Health centres created at TCS' campuses in 11 atties

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

With SBWS, TCS enabled most of its workforce to be fully productive while working remotely.
Through out FY 2021, less than 4% of the workforce worked out of its facilities, mostly
confined to very sensitive projects and activities such as R&D which necessarily require
specialized equipment and controlled environments. To create a safe workplace for them,

TCS deployed its IUX for Workplace Resilience solution which combines risk analytics with key
business relaunch functions, including workforce safety, regulatory compliance, operational
resilience, and customer engagement.

Its business command dashboard enables site administrators to monitor the daily risk profile
and risk prediction for over 180,000 TCSers in India on a rolling seven, 14- and 21-day basis,
easing workforce deployment planning. Based on the daily risk scores, site administrators
could decide which of the employees could be safely allowed to return to work, if required.

Additionally, to ease the pressure on strained local medical infrastructure and help
TCSers and their families safely quarantine themselves in the event of testing positive to
the virus, TCS built 11 Covid Health Centers across various cities at its campuses, with a
cumulative capacity of 240 beds.

Looking ahead, TCS’ Vision 25x25 envisages a very different role for the office, to serve as
physical hubs for collaboration, innovation and team building, while routine work can get done
from anywhere. Towards this, the company has already built Incubation Development Centers
at some of its locations, which will be further refined to align with business requirements.
These locations are going to be Open Agile Collaborative Workspaces with Software

Defined Network rolled out in a phased manner. This will give the teams mobility, flexibility
and seamless collaboration environments for their business functions. TCS is also planning

to consolidate old leased, non-agile and smaller vintage facilities to new owned campuses,
optimizing its operational mpenees

Management Discussion and Analysis | 126
FY 2021 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW: FINANCIAL CAPITAL?2

The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the
year that ended March 31, 2021. The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries
(collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or ‘the Company’ are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards
(referred to as ‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to time. Significant accounting policies used in the
preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the Company:

 

 

& crore
FY 2021 Adjusted* FY 2021 Reported FY 2020
SM ernl Ley yr % Growth Revenue yr aor gLULcd rreyi
eet a1 Vcd aed aLLcs Revenue
Revenue from operations 164,177 100.0 46] 164,177 100.0} 156,949 100.0
Earnings before interest, tax, 46,546 28.4 10.5 45,328 276 42,109 26.8

depreciation and amortization
(EBIDTA) (before other income)

 

 

 

Profit Before Tax (PBT) 44,978 274 6.5 43,760 26.7 42,248 26.9
Profit after tax attributable to 33,388 20.3 3.2 32,430 19.8 32,340 20.6
shareholders of the Company

Earnings per share {in 2) 89.27 3.6 86.71 86.19

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Excluding provision towards legal claim

 

2103-3

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Analysis of revenue growth

On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 4.6% in
FY 2021, compared to 7.2% in the prior year, due
to the sharp revenue reduction in the first quarter
across industry segments from the pandemic impact.

Average currency exchange rates during FY 2021 for
the three major currencies are given below:

Currency Weightage FY2021 FY2020 % Change

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eal z z SNA
USD 520 74.06 71.23 40
GBP 135 97.32 90.15 8.0
EUR 120 86.69 78.94 9.8

 

 

Movements in currency exchange rates through the
year resulted in a positive impact of 5.4% on the
reported revenue. The constant currency revenue
growth for the year, which ts the reported revenue
growth stripped of the currency impact, was (0.8)%.

Growth attributable to FY 2021(%) FY 2020 (%)

 

 

Business growth (0.8) 71
Impact of Exchange rate 54 0.1
Total Growth 4.6 7.2

 

 

 

 

 

Management Discussion and Analysis | 127
Segmental Performance

The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:

Others
18.2%

Banking, Financial
Services and
Manufacturing Insurance

Ci 40.0%

Communication,
Media and
Techology

Tse Retail and

Consumer
Business
15.6%

 

Revenue by Industry Vertical

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Americas

oy

 

Revenue by Geography

Management Discussion and Analysis | 128
Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:

 

Industry Vertical er srel talaga aT =9 YoY eel tant] Segment Margin
FY 2021 SacI =9 a arsern
(macro) (eT ge rag) (FY 2020)
Rol gel g=3 v3 v3
Banking, Financial Services 65,634 74 e Key investment themes included customer experience transformation; future readiness through core 28.5
and Insurance (61,095) transformation including platform simplification and modernization and cloud adoption; optimization (27.7)

of back office operations.

° Other key areas of spend included adoption of payments, robo-advisory systems and
crypto-custody solutions

e@ Market reform such as CAT, LIBOR Transition, SFTR, BREXIT also drove significant spend especially
around the use of predictive analytics, Al, NLP and automation.

 

Communication, Media and 27,077 A2 © Parts of the Media sub-vertical, related to live sports, events, entertainment and radio were affected 29.6
Technology (25,978) by the pandemic. (29.7)

e Key investment themes included 5G and fiber rollout, network virtualization, operating model
transformation, product and platform engineering, business simplification, data and analytics and
cloud enablement.

e M&A and business separation activities was another key driver of spend.

 

Retail and Consumer 25,589 (2.6) © ~~ Retail and CPG — Discretionary retail and some parts of CPG were impacted by the pandemic. 27.9
Business (26,280) Spending was driven by transformation in Demand Planning, Forecasting and Replenishment to (26.1)
ensure continuous availability of high demand essential items; unified customer experience across
channels, contactless pick-up / payment, curbside pickups etc; D2C and e-commerce initiatives in
CPG.

© Travel, Transportation & Hospitality — The sector was badly impacted by pandemic restrictions. Key
investment themes include contactless operations and self-service, operating model changes, and
simplification.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 129
Industry Vertical er srel talaga aT =9 YoY eel tant] Segment Margin

 

FY 2021 SacI =9 a arsern
(macro) (eT ge rag) (FY 2020)
Rol gel g=3 v3
Manufacturing 15,950 (3.1) ° Large parts of the manufacturing sector were impacted badly by the plant closures and supply chain 28.1
(16,468) disruptions. This resulted in postponements in capex and discretionary programs. (27.0)

° Key spending themes included IT infrastructure and movement to the cloud, Plant safety and
industrial applications such as remote asset management, IT security, Supply chain resilience,
in-vehicle software, connected products.

© = Inthe Utilities sub-vertical, key areas of spend included geospatial systems, customer service, and
operational resilience and optimization.

 

Others 29,927 10.3 ® ~~ Growth in the Life Sciences segment was led by pandemic related initiatives such as adverse event 275
(27,128) processing for the vaccine, M&A synergies through IT integration, digital marketing and analytics, IT (22.6)
operating model transformation, cloud enablement, workplace modernization and cybersecurity.

© Key areas of spend across other verticals included M&A, cloud adoption, cyber security, operations
optimization and vendor consolidation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 130
Business Outlook

Global economic growth is projected to grow at

6 percent? in 2021 after an estimated contraction of
3.3 percent in 2020. While there is still uncertainty
on the path of the health crisis, with likelihood of
third or fourth waves, and the emergence of new
strains of the virus, overall business outlook across
industries appears to be positive in all of TCS’ major
markets. This is expected to result in an expansion in
enterprise spending on IT services globally, following
a decline in 2020.

TCS anticipates increased investments by customers
in growth and transformation initiatives that

deepen customer engagement, enable competitive
differentiation, improve supply chain resilience and
drive revenue growth. Common investment themes
that are expected to accelerate across all industry
verticals in FY 2022 are: data-driven customer
journey transformations spanning front-, middle-
and back-office processes and systems to enable
enhanced and personalized customer experiences;
digital enablers for direct distribution and end-
customer engagement; seamless, personalized
omnichannel experiences in consumer-facing
industries; product and business model innovations;
and adoption of open APIs to enable purpose-driven
ecosystems.

 

Increased activity around mergers, acquisitions
and divestitures are expected to drive more
opportunities around integration and transitional
services. Other industry-specific themes such as
regulatory compliance in the banking and financial
services domains, supply chain transformation

in manufacturing, and connected vehicles in the
auto sector are also expected to drive growth.
TCS also expects increasing focus on longer term
sustainability initiatives across industries, focused on
leveraging technology to reduce emissions, wastes
and resource consumption.

Core transformation initiatives designed to build a
scalable, adaptive, future-ready digital core are also
expected to accelerate in FY 2022. TCS anticipates
increased spending on business operations
transformation using TCS Cognix™; legacy system
transformation including application architecture
and data modernization; cloud adoption; intelligent
automation; cyber-security; IT operating model
transformation using a Machine First approach

for leaner and more agile operations; and digital
workplace transformation for enhanced user
experience and superior collaboration. The need for
optimization and for freeing up resources for high
priority transformation initiatives is also expected to
result in more outsourcing engagements and vendor
consolidation, helping drive market share gains.

23 World Economic Outlook, April 2021, International Monetary Fund

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Enterprise Risk Management

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to challenge
businesses in every possible way and has amplified
existing risks. Operating in an uncertain and
ever-changing environment, TCS’ global operations
bring in considerable complexities and its robust
enterprise risk management framework aids in
ensuring the strategic objectives are achieved.
This framework is supported by processes for

risk identification, risk assessment, risk response
planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall
risk governance. The digital platform for integrated
risk management provides an enterprise-wide view
of risks covering strategic, operational, compliance,
financial and catastrophic risks, providing a holistic
approach towards informed decision making. Risks
are assessed and managed at various levels with a
top-down and bottom-up approach covering the
enterprise, the business units, the geographies, the
functions, the customer relationships and projects.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 131
Listed below are some of the key risks, anticipated impact on the Company and mitigation strategies.

OVAL CS

Disruption and
Uncertainty in
Business due to the
COVID-19 pandemic

 

 

 

Impact he Company

 

Customers:

The COVID-19 pandemic extending into the second year has
resulted in changes in consumer behaviors, impacting demand
in various industries, hurting small businesses and necessitating
large fiscal interventions. Tapering off of these interventions, or
the emergence of new variants which trigger new lockdowns
and other restrictions could disrupt the return to normalcy
and impact customers’ short-term priorities, growth plans

and discretionary budgets. It could also result in restructuring
of some contracts, deferment, cancellation of some planned
engagements besides other tactical steps such as vendor
rationalization, or insourcing of work to captives, impacting the
company’s revenue growth.

Mobility:

Due to new strains of COVID-19 and increasing trend

in infection cases globally, business disruptions due to
intermittent lockdowns, international travel restrictions are
likely, impacting the mobility of the company’s workforce
required to travel for work purposes, which in turn may impact
service delivery and revenues.

Workforce:

The continuing pandemic may affect not only the health of
affected employees, but also their emotional and mental
wellbeing, due to physical isolation for a long period. If large
numbers of employees are affected, it could result in business
disruption and necessitate higher spends for ensuring business
resiliency. There could be hesitation to come back to office

in the near future from employees who have been working
remotely from their hometowns. This may impact employee
morale and satisfaction leading to the risk of higher attrition.

 

  

[ora

COVID-19 Emergency Response Apex committee at Enterprise level to drive a holistic action
plan and coordinate global efforts, based on frequent risk assessments.

Secure Borderless WorkSpaces (SBWS™) infrastructure enabling associates to work fram home
and ensure business continuity. Digital communication channels and collaboration platforms set
up for them to stay connected with colleagues and customers.

Regular communication with customers about measures taken to maintain business services and
reporting of their operations status.

Pursuing new and re-purposed offerings and solutions during and post the COVID-19
disruption.

Regular coordination with key suppliers for expeditious provisioning of assets critical for business
services

24*7 dedicated helpline for associates to address COVID-19 related help, queries and for
emotional support. Regular webinars, interactive sessions, counseling services (TCS Cares),
medical hotline to doctors and fitness sessions for associates. Isolation Centers setup in

11 TCS Offices.

Periodic advisories to associates towards ensuring health and safety.

SOP for operating TCS Offices including implementing Safe Operating Zones for associates
required to work from office, thermal screening, self-declaration, frequent sanitization of
premises, social distancing layout etc. Al-based Workplace resilience tool implemented in
Delivery Centers to aid in risk profiling and contact tracing.

Rigorous review and execution of Business Continuity and Crisis Management capability which is
benchmarked with ISO 22301 certification.

Remote working practices for managers and employees integrated into the Location
Independent Agile delivery method, to ensure effectiveness and productivity.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 132
OVAL CS

 

Impact he Company

However, the company’s relative competitiveness is expected
to increase because of its traditional value focus and its strong
track record in helping customers improve the efficiency and
resilience of their business and IT operations through digital
transformation initiatives and the Machine First Delivery
Model™.

 

Mitigati

 

Regular connect with Government and Health service providers to facilitate planning for logistics
and arrangements for vaccination of employees as required.

Encouraging associates to get vaccinated, including facilitation and reimbursement.

Monitoring changes in regulations related to the impact due to pandemic and align internal
policies accordingly.

 

Volatile global political
and economic
scenario

The Company derives a material portion of its revenues from
customers’ discretionary spending which is linked to their
business outlook. Political disruptions or volatile economic
conditions due to geo-political tensions, trade wars, and
uncertainty regarding post-Brexit impacts on different business
sectors may adversely affect that outlook resulting in reduced
spending which could restrict revenue growth opportunities.

Broad-based business mix, well diversified across geographies and industry verticals.

Offerings and value propositions targeting all stakeholders {in addition to the CIO} in the
customer organization, covering discretionary as well as non-discretionary spends, and relevant
at every point in the business cycle.

Participating in the customer's growth and transformation initiatives through services and
offerings including advisory services, migration and modernization of applications and workplace
transformation using location independent agile, deep contextual knowledge and data-driven
analytics and dashboards.

Proactively investing in infrastructure and resourcing to satisfy anticipated customer demand for
flexible products-and- platforms based solution offerings and subscription-based services to gain
market share and new clients and markets.

More long-term contracting models.

Leveraging business ecosystem through collaboration with partners, startups and alliances to
participate in transformation initiatives of customers.

 

Restrictions on global
mobility, location
strategies

 

 

Distributed software development models require the free
movement of people across countries and any restrictions
in key markets pose a threat to the global mobility of skilled
professionals.

Restrictions on mobility due to the pandemic, or due to
legislations which limit the availability of work visas or which
apply onerous eligibility criteria or costs could lead to project
delays and increased costs.

 

Ongoing monitoring of the global environment, working with advisors, partners and
governments.

Material reduction in dependency on work visas through increased hiring of local talent including
freshers, use of contractors, local mobility and training in all major markets.

Leveraging the SBWS™ model to source talent from anywhere and deliver from anywhere.
Use of Location Independent Agile to promote systematic collaboration and reduce the need for
co-location.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 133
OVAL CS

 

 

Mitigati

 

Active engagement in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) initiatives designed to
structurally increase the availability of engineering talent in major markets.

Greater brand visibility through event sponsorships, community outreach, showcasing of
investments, innovation capabilities and employment generation.

Increased outreach to government stakeholders, trade bodies, think tanks and research
institutes.

 

Business model
challenges

 

 

Rapidly evolving technologies are changing technology
consumption patterns, creating new classes of buyers within
the enterprise, giving rise to entirely new business models and
therefore new kinds of competitors.

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a major acceleration
of technology investments by customers to make themselves
future-proof and also to power the revival of their business.
This investment shift is targeted to deliver superior customer
experience or improve their employee engagement or
improve their operational resilience. There is a major shift
towards public cloud adoption and cloud-based transformation
initiatives as well as digitalization of legacy applications.

This is resulting in increased demands on the Company's agility
to keep pace with the rapidly changing customer expectations.
Failure to cope may result in loss of market share and impact
business growth.

There is also increased focus on vendor consolidation and
corporate restructuring and mergers and acquisitions in some
customer industries.

 

Investments in building scale and differentiated capabilities on emerging technologies through
large scale reskilling, external hiring, research and innovation, solution development and IP asset
creation leveraging deep contextual knowledge across customer specific domain, technologies
and processes.

Establishment of focused business service units providing end-to-end transformational and
operational solutions on leading cloud technology platforms spanning advisory, migration and
modernization and support of applications.

Staying relevant to customers by constantly launching new service practices and technology
solutions including a new Al- Powered business command solution to help firms assess risk
profiles and protect employees returning to offices and modernizing existing offerings and
solutions.

Developing capabilities in organization divestiture and integration planning to cater to Merger
and Acquisition induced demand for advisory and business consolidation related services.

Thought leadership by propagating the Business 4.0 framework leveraging the Machine First
Delivery Model (MFDM™}. Developing industry-specific best practices and Al-led Products to
enable customers derive greater business value and discover opportunities to transform and
grow their businesses.

Implementing Location Independent Agile methods to mitigate location constraints and pricing
and margin pressures.

Constant scouring of the technology landscape through alliance partnerships, and strong
connections in academia and the start-up ecosystem to spot new trends and technologies and
launch offerings around them.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 134
OVAL CS

Litigation risks

 

Impact he Company

Given the scale and geographic spread of the Company's
operations, litigation risks can arise from commercial disputes,
perceived violation of intellectual property rights and
employment related matters. Its rising profile and scale also
make TCS a target to litigations without any legal merit. This
risk is inherent to doing business across the various countries
and commensurate with risk faced by other players similarly
placed in the industry. In addition to incurring legal costs and
distracting management, litigations garner negative media
attention and pose reputation risk. Adverse rulings can result in
substantive damages.

 

Mitigati

 

Strengthening internal processes and controls to adequately ensure compliance with contractual
obligations, information security and protection of intellectual property.

Improved governance and controls over immigration process / increasing localization and
sensitization of business managers.

Potential disputes are promptly brought to the attention of management and dealt with
appropriately.

Team of in-house counsels, backed by tie-ups with a network of highly reputed global law firms
in all the major markets.

Robust mechanism to track and respond to notices as well as defend the Company's position in
all claims and litigation.

 

Currency volatility

Volatility in currency exchange movements results in
transaction and translation exposure. TCS’ functional currency
is the Indian Rupee. Appreciation of the Rupee against any
major currency could impact the reported revenue in Rupee
terms, the profitability and also result in collection losses.

Following a currency hedging policy that is aligned with market best practices, to limit impact of
exchange volatility on receivables, forecasted revenue and other current assets and liabilities

Hedging strategies are decided and monitored by the Risk Management Committee of the
Board convened on a regular basis.

 

Breach of data
protection laws

 

 

Data Privacy and protection of personal data is an area of
increasing concern globally. Legislations like GDPR in Europe
carry severe consequences for non-compliance or breach.
Many other countries have enacted or are enacting their
Data Privacy regulations to ensure protection of personal
data. Violation of data protection laws or security breaches
can result in substantive liabilities, fines or penalties and
reputational impact.

 

Global privacy policy in place covering all applicable geographies and areas of operations, which
sets out the privacy principles within TCS.

Global privacy policy in place to oversee and deploy data privacy obligations and support
initiatives across the enterprise. DPOs (Data Protection Officers} have been appointed for
TCS entities as required by local privacy regulations. Privacy leads have been appointed in all
units.

Embedding privacy by design and privacy by default principles in development of new or changed
internal processes or services or products. Robust and continued governance of personal data.

Data protection controls and robust risk response mechanisms to cater to protection of personal
data in the TCS ecosystem as well as protection of such data in Client-managed networks in
Global Delivery Centers.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 135
OVAL CS

 

 

Mitigati

 

Industry standard data masking technologies to protect personal data in sensitive customer
engagements, as applicable.

Review and sign-off of Data Processing Agreement (DPA) with Vendors and Third parties and
their tracking for privacy compliance, where required.

Mandatory online training and other workshops on data privacy and protection and on GDPR.
Awareness campaigns through blog posts, email broadcasts, gamification, roadshows and online
events.

Implementing and maintaining data transfer agreements, where required for the transfer of data
across jurisdictions.

Periodic reviews and audits by independent audit firm to verify compliance to obligations.

 

Cyber Attacks

 

 

Risks of cyber-attacks are forever a threat on account of the
fast-evolving nature of the threat. There is also an increased
risk due to various pandemic themed cyber threats.

In addition to impact on business operations, a security breach
could result in reputational damage, penalties and legal and
financial liabilities.

 

Investments in automated prevention and detection solutions, including Perimeter security
controls with advanced tools, enhanced internal vulnerability detection, data leak prevention
tools, defined and tested incident management and recovery process in compliance with ISO
27001 standard.

Deployment of a security governance tool on all devices used by employees while working
remotely, to monitor the work and ensure compliance to company security policies and
contractual obligations.

Compliance to security controls for cloud services as per ISO 27017:2015 / 27018:2014
standard.

Continued reinforcement of stringent security policies and procedures including enhanced
security measures and awareness building to combat pandemic-themed threats like phishing,
soliciting for fraudulent causes or charities, suspicious pleas and communication through social
media, text or calls.

Collaboration with Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) and other private Cyber
Intelligence agencies, and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber threats.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 136
OVAL CS

 

 

Mitigati

 

Enterprise-wide training and awareness programs on Information Security including the
extensively used enterprise-wide communication and collaboration platforms accessed through
mobile or desktop channels.

Strict access controls including dynamic passwords for secure access to enterprise applications
and special handling of privileged administrator accounts. Rigorous access management on all
Cloud deployments.

Encryption of data, data back-up and recovery mechanisms for ensuring business continuity.

Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network from client network and defined escalation mechanisms
to handle security incidents in client environment.

Periodic rigorous testing to validate effectiveness of controls through Vulnerability Assessment
and Penetration Testing.

Internal and external audits and forensics.

 

Non-compliance
to complex and
changing global
regulations

 

 

Asa global organization, the Company has to comply with a
complex regulatory landscape across multiple jurisdictions,
covering areas such as Employment and Labour, Immigration,

Taxation, Foreign Exchange and Expert Control, Environment,

Health and Safety, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Data
Privacy and so on.

The laws and regulations are continuously evolving, increasing
in number and complexity. This has resulted in greater
compliance risk and cost for the Company.

The fast pace of changes in the regulatory environment,
including those due to the pandemic, also requires quick
understanding of their implications and adaptation in business
operations. Failure to comply could result in penalties,
reputational damage and criminal prosecution.

 

Deployment of a comprehensive global compliance management framework that enables
tracking of changes to applicable laws and regulations across various jurisdictions and functional
areas and managing compliance obligations. This includes those laws and provisions specially
enacted directly to cater to the pandemic impacts.

Periodic regulatory compliance certification, which is fully digitized enables self-governance and
covers compliance across all the locations of the Company.

Adequate and effective internal controls to comply with regulations and to keep a check on
unlawful and fraudulent activities.

Awareness through web-based compliance training courses for all staff and regular notifications/
alerts on regulatory changes communicated to stakeholders.

Strong governance at executive and board level through compliance committees.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 137
OVAL CS

Intellectual Property
(IP) infringement and
leakage

 

 

ital orsreteor mgm el tal>-aNg

Risk of infringement of third-party IPs by TCS may lead to
potential liabilities, increased litigation and impact reputation.

Inadequate protection of TCS’ IP may lead to loss of IP leading
to potential loss of ownership rights, revenue and value.

 

Mitigation
Established an industry leading IP management framework (IP 4.0) and accordingly
have institutionalized frameworks, processes and procedures that address the risk of
infringement of third-party IP while ensuring safeguarding of TCS’ own IP assets. This strong
focus on IP-led growth driven based on the 3P (Patents, Products and Platforms) strategy is
contributing significantly towards thinning the competition for TCS.

Established a centralized IP and Software Product Engineering group that strives to build an IP
thinking culture and hence covering the IP related awareness aspects effectively.

Well- defined (software) asset lifecycle governance framework that incorporates policy guidance
and risk mitigation guidelines on IP, Legal, software product engineering and business-related
risks.

IP Governance program that ensures that there is right access and right use of TCS IP. customer
IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in service and partner engagements.

Some of the other key controls include: Employee confidentiality agreement, training and
awareness for IP protection and prevention of IP contamination and infringement. Digitized
system to enable strict controls around movement of people and information across

TCS’ product teams and customer account teams.

Technology inventions celebrated in TCS by running special programs such as “Invent and
Inspire” wherein top inventors and their invention stories are recognized for their success and
impact on business.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 138
OVAL CS

Sustainability Risks
- Climate change
and Environmental
aspects

 

 

Impact

 

the Company

Growing scientific evidence indicates that extreme weather
conditions like intense winter storms (recent event in Texas for
example}, rainfall, cyclones, droughts, are attributable to climate
change. As a result of changing weather and seasonal patterns,
there are also increasing cases of seasonal diseases, epidemics
and pandemics besides threat to human safety and business
disruption.

As TCS has operations globally with employees distributed
across numerous locations due to remote working, these
sustainability related risks, if not managed properly, have the
potential to impact delivery operations and safety of TCS
stakeholders resulting in business disruption.

Market dimension and opportunity:

As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the
company is seeing a transition in the customer's business
models, thus creating new markets and new opportunities,
creating new business avenues for TCS to partner with them in
their climate change mitigation journey by leveraging its core
competencies.

 

Market dimension and opportunity:

 

Mitigati

 

An environmentally sustainable approach adopted by creating green policies, processes,
frameworks and infrastructure. All TCS Centers globally continue to be certified under the
ISO14001:2015 Environment Management Standard.

Designed and planned all delivery centers infrastructure to have minimum impact upon
occurrence of any extreme weather events. Business Continuity plans tested periodically to
ensure effectiveness in the event of disaster. Mass communication infrastructure to reach
targeted set employees used effectively multiple times last year due to pandemic and extreme
weather conditions.

Focus on Carbon footprint reduction, through energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, water
management through rainwater harvesting, recycling and waste management.

Centralised loT based Remote Energy Management System across TCS campuses, Roof Top
Solar Power Plants in campuses.

Driving supply chain sustainability through responsible sourcing.

Year-round associate engagement on environmental awareness and sensitizing them towards
nature and conservation of resources.

Consumer behaviors are shaping how products and services are delivered and consumed. Low
carbon strategies by consumers and hence increasing demand for more sustainable products and
services, present an opportunity for the company.

TCS key solution areas revolve around designing sustainability strategy, sustainability innovation,
sustainable consumer analytics and sustainable dashboards. Various TCS products and solutions
facilitate alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. TCS works closely with its
customers in coming up with innovative solutions leveraging Al, ML, NLP, Cloud and DLT to
manage the range of risks and opportunities climate change brings along.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 139
Internal Financial Control Systems and their
Adequacy

TCS has aligned its current systems of internal
financial control with the requirement of Companies
Act 2013, on the lines of the globally accepted
risk-based framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway
Commission. The Internal Control — Integrated
Framework (the 2013 framework) is intended

to increase transparency and accountability

in an organization’s process of designing and
implementing a system of internal control.

The framework requires a company to identify and
analyze risks and manage appropriate responses.
The Company has successfully laid down the
framework and ensured its effectiveness.

TCS' internal controls are commensurate with its
size and the nature of its operations. These have
been designed to provide reasonable assurance
with regard to recording and providing reliable
financial and operational information, complying
with applicable statutes, safeguarding assets from
unauthorized use, executing transactions with
proper authorization and ensuring compliance with
corporate policies. TCS has a well-defined delegation
of power with authority limits for approving
contracts as well as expenditure. Processes for
formulating and reviewing annual and long-term
business plans have been laid down. TCS uses a

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system that connects all parts of the organization,
to record data for accounting, consolidation and
management information purposes. It has continued
its efforts to align all its processes and controls with
global best practices.

TCS management has assessed the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Clause 17 of SEBI
Regulations 2015) as of March 31, 2021.

BSR & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS

have audited the financial statements included in
this integrated annual report and have issued an
attestation report on the company’s internal control

over financial reporting (as defined in section 143 of
Companies Act 2013).

TCS has appointed Ernst & Young LLP to oversee
and carry out internal audit of its activities. The audit
is based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed
each year in consultation with the statutory auditors
and approved by the audit committee. In line with
international practice, the conduct of internal audit
is oriented towards the review of internal controls
and risks in the Company's operations such as
software delivery, accounting and finance,
procurement, employee engagement, travel,
insurance, IT processes, including most of the
subsidiaries and foreign branches.

TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized
third party consultants and professionals for business
specific compliances such as quality management,
service management, information security, etc.

The audit committee reviews reports submitted by
the management and audit reports submitted by
internal auditors and statutory auditors. Suggestions
for improvement are considered and the audit
committee follows up on corrective action. The
audit committee also meets TCS’ statutory auditors
to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy
of internal control systems and keeps the board

of directors informed of its major observations
periodically.

Based on its evaluation (as defined in section

177 of Companies Act 2013 and Clause 18 of
SEBI Regulations 2015), TCS’ audit committee

has concluded that, as of March 31, 2021, the
company’s internal financial controls were adequate
and operating effectively.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 140
Performance Trend — 10 years
Amounts in ® Crore

Revenue from

Total revenue from i 164,177 164,177 156,949 146,463 123,104 117,966 108,646 94648 81,809 62,989

Revenue

Americas 84,278 84,278 82,000 77,562 66,145 66,091 60,011 51,053 45,259 35,247
52,346 52,346 48,037 43,456 34,155 30,038 29,092 26,730 23,433 16,813

India 8.449 8.449 8.964 8,393 7,921 7A15 6,729 6,108 5488 4,890

Others 19,104 19,104 17,948 17,052 14,883 14,422 12,814 10,757 7,629 6,039

Cost

Em cost 91,814 91,814 85,952 78,246 66,396 61,621 55,348 50,924 40,486 31,922

Other ing cost 25,817 27,035 28,888 28,711 24,192 24,034 22,621 19,242 16,170 13,027

Total cost (excluding interest & iati 117,631 118,849 114,840 106,957 90,588 85,655 77,969 70,166 56,656 44,949

EBITDA (before other income 46,546 45,328 42,109 39,506 32,516 32,311 30,677 24482 25,153 18,040
Profit before tax 44,978 43,760 42,248 41,563 34,092 34,513 31,840 25,809 25,402 18,090
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the

33,388 32,430 32,340 31,472 25,826 26,289 24,270 19,852 19,164 13,917

Financial Position

share capital 370 370 375 375 191 197 197 196 196 196 196 196
Reserves ands 87,014 86,063 83,751 89,071 84,937 86,017 70,875 52,499 50.439 48,999 38,350 29,284
Gross block of i 28,658 28,658 26.444 24,522 22,720 20,891 19,308 16,624 16,624 13,162 10,996 8,844
Total investments 29,373 29,373 26,356 29,330 36,008 41,980 22,822 1,662 1662 3,434 1,897 1,350
Net current assets 66,076 65,125 63,177 70,047 63,396 65,804 47,644 30,726 28495 27,227 19,734 12,673

share in %

EPS - as 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 134.19 133.41 123.18 111.87 101.35 97.67 70.99 53.07
EPS - adj for Bonus Issue 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84 35.50 26.54
Headcount (number;
Headcount (including subsidiaries) as on March 31% 488,649 488,649 448,464 424,285 394,998 387,223 353,843 319,656 319,656 300,464 276,196 238,583

 

Note : The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 141
Overview of Funds Invested

Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
(® Crore}

Investments in mutual funds, Government securities and others 29,160 26,140 29,335 26,314

Deposits with banks 3,848 1.210 719 4.567 1.558
Inter-corporate deposits 11,229 8,171 27 27 11,256 8,198
Cash and bank balances 5,272 8.241 = Sd 5,272 8.241
Total 49,509 43,762 921 549 50,430 44,311

 

Total invested funds include 71,306 crore and 71,195 crore for FY 2021 and FY 2020, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 142
Ratio Analysis — 10 years

Ratios - Financial Performance
Employee Cost / Total Revenue

Other Operating Cost / Total
Revenue

Total Cost / Total Revenue

EBITDA (Before Other Income) /
Total Revenue

Profit Before Tax / Total Revenue
Tax / Total Revenue

Effective Tax Rate - Tax / PBT
Profit After Tax / Total Revenue
Ratios - Growth

Total Revenue

EBITDA (Before Other Income)
Profit After Tax

Ratios - Balance Sheet

Debt- Equity Ratio Times =

Current Ratio Times 3.0

 

Note : The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 143
Ratio Analysis Ind AS Indian GAAP

Fy 2021* FY 2021 FY2020 FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY 2015* FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY 2012

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in Days 67 67 71 68 74 70 81 79 79 81 82 86
= terms

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in Days 68 68 67 69 74 73 80 78 78 82 82 81
S terms

Invested Funds / Capital Employed % 52.6 53.1 47.7 55.2 55.6 55.8 45.8 42.3 43.9 44.0 37.2 35.6
Capital Expenditure / Total % 1.9 19 2.0 15 1.5 1.7 1.8 3.1 3.1 3.8 4.2 41
Revenue

Operating Cash Flow / Total % 23.6 23.6 20.6 19.5 20.4 21.4 17.6 20.5 20.5 18.0 18.4 14.3
Revenue

Free Cash Flow / Operating Cash % 91.9 91.9 90.5 92.5 92.8 92.3 89.7 84.8 84.8 78.9 77.3 71.5
Flow Ratio

Depreciation of Property, Plant % 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.5 9.1 9.5 10.0 11.7 11.7 10.6 10.2 10.7

and Equipment (PPE) / Average
Gross Block of PPE

 

Ratios - Per Share

 

 

 

 

 

EPS - adjusted for Bonus z 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84 35.50 26.54
Price Earning Ratio, end of year Times 35.6 36.6 21.2 24.1 21.2 18.2 20.4 22.8 25.1 21.8 22.1 22.0
Dividend Per Share z 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 50.00 47.00 43.50 79.00 79.00 32.00 22.00 25.00
Dividend Per Share - adjusted for z 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 25.00 23.50 21.75 39.50 39.50 16.00 11.00 12.50
Bonus

Market Capitalisation / Total Times 7.2 7.2 44 5.1 44 Al A6 5.3 5.3 5.1 A9 A7
Revenue

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note : The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 144
FY 2021 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW:
SOCIAL CAPITAL

A Purpose-Driven Approach

TCS’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)**
commitment stems from the Company's core values
and the Tata Group’s ethos of improving the quality
of life of local communities, while contributing

to economic and social development. TCS’ core
belief of building greater futures for people and
communities through innovation and collective
knowledge is based on the values of fairness, equity
and respect for human rights and guides how the
Company conducts its business, treats its employees
and supports local communities”°.

The company’s vision is to empower communities

by connecting people to opportunities in the

digital economy and its mission is to build inclusive,
equitable and sustainable pathways for all - especially
youth, women and marginalized communities.

 

24 103-2, 103-3

25 TCS has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact
(UNGC) since 2006 and is aligned with its ten principles.
The Company supports the principles contained in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at
Work, and the United Nations Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights.

TCS has continued to empower communities
globally through its strategic programs - by
prioritizing education, skilling, employment and
entrepreneurship with a focus to bridge the
opportunity gap. TCS has also invested in basic
health and wellness, water sanitation and hygiene,
conservation and disaster relief efforts to support
the most pressing needs of communities across the
globe.

TCS’ CSR programs have integrated inclusion within
their design, ensuring that the company applies

its resources towards communities and population
segments that need it the most, and becomes the
catalyst for equal access. In India, the company Is
aligned with the Government of India’s Affirmative
Action Policy and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action
Program.

In FY 2021, TCS’ global community initiatives
reached more than 1.8 million beneficiaries.

TCS has leveraged its intellectual, technology
expertise, and financial and human capital to create
exponential impact across the globe. The company’s
engagement strategy utilizes its contextual
knowledge and the knowledge from a diverse

network of experts to develop innovative solutions
to unique problems within the community. Its deep
understanding of technology and its application helps
to create a strong foundation for execution at scale.
TCS’ growing, highly skilled and diverse workforce
serves as champions to build organic connects with
the community while accelerating social impact. This
novel approach ensures that the company invests

in large-scale yet sustainable initiatives that create
generational improvements.

Opportunities for employees to volunteer time
include skills-based volunteering, pro bono support
to community-based organization and social

cause leadership. In FY 2021, more than 69,000
employees volunteered over 787,000 hours to
support these initiatives.

An understanding of access darkness during the
pandemic prompted bridgital and other innovative
solutions and a recalibration of TCS programmes.
The company has leveraged this opportunity to
reimagine its programs through a digital-first
approach and, in conjunction with its efforts to close
the digital gap, to be able to reach people when and
where they needed it most.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 145
Community Initiatives”®

EDUCATION

Adult Literacy
program (ALP}

 

 

Ignite My Future in
School (IMFIS)

GolT

Youth Employment
Program

BridgelT

SKILLING

Hal

EMPLOYMENT

5am us. | eum
G1] ad

ed esd ald

 

 

Digital Impact

 

 

 

 

 

Titer § 12 Gomes
Square 5 “a
A
26 413-1

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

THOUGHT LEADERSHIP, RESEARCH AND INSIGHTS

Digital Empowers

Cancer Institute,
Chennai

Middl
AME
SS

yea Pa Si)

 

Medical Center
(TMC)

 

Operation Smile

 

Es

 

Tata Trusts Migrant
Resource Centers

Jal Jeevan Mission

 

 

 

WATER SANITATION AND HYGIENE

 

Titer | 6
kal

 

 

Pro-Bono Technology Support to Social Organisations

 

 

Women’s Business 5 ae
Collaborative S

Chief Executives a

for Corporate

Purpose (CECP) @
Charitable 5 aa 19
Recycling Australia

 

 

 

 

 

Education

India has ~258 million adult illiterates. Despite
years of investments, illiteracy continues to persist
as a core impediment stopping individuals from
becoming productive and responsible members of
their communities and contributing to the national
economy. Over the last two decades, TCS’ Adult
Literacy program has not only helped create basic
literacy for groups that are otherwise left behind,
but has also empowered its female beneficiaries

to become income generators and change

agents within their own communities. Literacy
empowerment has resulted in social and economic
inclusion, as well as access to government benefits,
insurance schemes, financial stability and, in some
cases, financial independence.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 146
TCS’ proprietary Computer Based Functional
Literacy (CBFL) solution continues to help people
across India and in Africa achieve functional literacy
(reading, writing, arithmetic) within 50 hours -
1/6* the time demanded by conventional learning
methods. This year, TCS invested in efforts to
broaden its scope to include financial and digital
literacy modules, so that the program is elevated
to integrate a path to enhanced livelihoods while
creating relevance for its learners in the new digital
world.

8,180 learners gained literacy skills this year. Till date
the program has reached learners across

20 states and 162 districts in India and in Burkina
Faso, Western Africa.

Downstream impact created by the program, till date,

includes
e §=81% of learners encouraged their own children,
especially girls, to go to school.

e 75% reported that their self-esteem had
increased as a result of being literate.

e 67% reported that they were now more
participative in family decisions.

 

measurements to sew.

 

monthly turnover in her tailoring shop.

 

Like any other piece of drawstring, the measuring tape in Asha Devs tailoring shop in
a nondescript village of central India, hung uselessly for years. Despite her competence
with the sewing machine, till the age of 45, Asha could never establish herself as a
‘Tailor Master’. She could neither read nor write, and therefore she could not take down

4 Asha Devi enrolled herself in the Adult Literacy Program (ALP) and over three months,
achieved functional literacy. She now understands digits, expertly takes measurements and writes them down.
Literacy brought out the natural entrepreneur in her. Asha has now started a tailoring school at her house

where she offers a two-month crash course. The school gives her an assured income, in addition to the

“Now I’m not dependent on anyone. At the bank, | can do my own transactions. Earlier, | would have to take my
daughter's help to fill out the forms and could only use my thumb print,” she says.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Education has never been more important than
in today’s globally connected, knowledge-based
economy. It is increasingly critical for students

to master algorithmic thinking, problem-solving,
collaboration and creativity, among several other
skills that will set them up for success in this new
world of work.

 

Teachers from a schoo! in Bronx, New York receive guidance
through an IMFIS module.

Computational thinking (CT) has emerged as a key
skill-set empowering students with the strategies
they need to thrive in any job or industry. Ignite My
Future in School (IMFIS) has integrated CT skills
within classrooms in 350 districts across US and in
India, LATAM and UK.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 147
While integrating a core yet novel skill set within
classrooms, multi-layer engagement is critical. The
program has integrated within its model support
to key stakeholders within the learning ecosystem
which includes students, parents, teachers and
administrators and adopted an inclusive approach

within its design so that no student gets left behind.

As educators grappled with virtual learning during
the pandemic, IMFIS offered year-round support
through its Learning Leader Ambassador Program
working with 190 educators from schools across
North America, UK and LATAM in addition to
sharing distance learning activities that teachers
of any subject, grade, or student population could
immediately put into action.

In FY 2021, IMFIS empowered more than 600,000
students and educators. This year, the program was
also launched in India, Wales, Mexico and Canada.
The program surpassed its goal to reach 1 million

K-12 students and 20,000 educators in the US. a
full year ahead of the company’s 2022 goal.

An integral element of the program ts the Ignite
Innovation Student Challenge, which encourages
students to use computational thinking to create
digital solutions that solve problems within their
community and improve the world. The program
has created innovation champions like Ryan H who
was recognized as an “Orange County Hero” by
the American Red Cross and received a grant from
the Office of Naval Research to bring his low-cost
wildfire detection idea to life — a much needed
solution in a year that has seen multiple fires within
the region.

In addition, Gitanjali R, winner of the 2019 challenge
under the Health Pillar was named Time magazine’s
first ever ‘Kid of the Year’.

Skilling

In today’s Business 4.0™ world, where digital
technologies are rapidly reshaping the ways in which
enterprises do business, integrating new skill sets
within a student’s learning experience can play an
extremely important role in democratizing access to
opportunities.

This has been the unique outcome of golT, TCS’
student focused digital innovation program, which
has introduced learners across the globe to STEM,
computer science, design thinking and innovation.
Students who have experienced golT are empowered
to create technology enabled human-centred
solutions to problems within their ecosystems such
as Local, an app to provide low-income families with
fresh, locally sourced produce or Big Otry Fever, a
platform to mitigate online bullying and negative
commentary.

 

events.

 

 

Diego Vela is a middle school teacher at Colegio Ingles Americano in Monterrey, Mexico. In his STEM lab and computer studies classes, he
incorporates Ignite My Future’s transdisciplinary lessons to empower his students to solve real world problems.

He says, “The power of computational thinking lies in the fact that once you show students how to apply it to solve problems, they will naturally begin to
apply those strategies from that moment forward. They will forever receive the benefits of using computational thinking to find solutions.” Diego is also
a Learning Leader Ambassador who has shared his love of computational thinking and IMFIS resources with teachers in his school and at global

h rough the program’s global collaboration, he has connected his classes with other students from around the world to work together to solve
Through the prog global collab heh d his cl h oth d fi dth Id k togeth I
global problems using computational thinking. “We all speak one language,” says Deigo. “It is the language of education.”

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 148
 

The golT Monthly
Challenge provides
a recurring
opportunity for
classrooms to
directly engage with
the UN Sustainable
Development
Goals (SDGs) and
— the much-needed
virtual engagement
for students who are remotely learning. It
engages experts from across business and
policy to set challenges on issues impacting TCS
communities to spur digital innovation, creativity
and generation of new ideas. This year, students
across North America, UK and Australia worked
on novel solutions to address sustainability
challenges impacting communities everywhere.

 

Fight For Equality poy

e.

It was Jennifer Smith’s, EVP and ClO Zions
Bancorporation, challenge on reducing
inequalities (SDG goal 10) that spurred Nadine
and lvy from Canada to create winning solutions
to address gender and ethnic inequalities.

Nadine’s solution Female Force specifically targets
gender inequality by creating a safe space for
women to share their experiences and ideate

on solutions. Nadine says, “With Female Force |
want to create a supportive virtual village in which
women can empower each other.”

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

golT helps students think, problem solve and design.
Through a standardized and engaging curriculum,
students are introduced to the innovation lifecycle,
product prototyping and industry relevant
entrepreneurial skills empowering them to become
the digital innovators of tomorrow. 94% of the
students have gone through the program indicated
that they were excited about a career that utilizes
digital technologies.

The pandemic demonstrated the critical role
learning continuity played while highlighting the
need to build strong support systems. In response,
golT transitioned to three models of delivery while
keeping the core curriculum intact — volunteer
driven engagements in-person or virtually, golT
Online ensuring seamless year-round connects with
students and SDG focused monthly challenges that
encouraged students to create solutions based on
UN Sustainable Development Goals. These unique
offerings enabled students to expand their creativity,
connect with a myriad of industry mentors and
develop sustainable solutions to problems faced by
vulnerable communities across the globe.

In FY 2021, the program reached more than 54,000
beneficiaries and expanded to 33 countries.

Impact created by the program, till date, includes,

e 70% of students showed an increase in empathy.

e 80% of students showed higher order design
thinking skills.

e 55% wanted to continue using technology to
create solutions for the community.

Employment

Over the decade to 2030, India will need to create
at least 90 million new jobs to absorb the 60 million
new workers who will enter the workforce. In a
similar vein, Latin America experiences the world’s
highest skills shortage in the formal economy, with
four in ten organizations finding it difficult to get
workers with the necessary skills.

As a result of the pandemic, digital fluency

and a mastery of technology has become the
default especially when ensuring access to future
opportunities. Despite this, there still exists an

acute lack of access to and understanding of digital
technologies. Even today, youth from ethnic, socio-
economic, and otherwise marginalized communities
have limited or no access to develop market relevant
skills that can set them up for success.

Last year TCS Singapore partnered with the
Singaporean government to help graduates upskill
and secure Jobs during COVID last year, along
with its usual hiring. In FY 2021, TCS Singapore
announced plans to launch a Digital Acceleration

Management Discussion and Analysis | 149
Centre (DAC), supported by the Singapore Economic
Development Board (EDB), to support Singapore’s
businesses in their recovery and future -readiness.
As part of this initiative, TCS’ will provide up to 100
traineeship opportunities for local polytechnic and
university graduates through Workforce Singapore’s
SGUnited Traineeships Programme. This programme
consists of foundational, specialized, and hands-on
training courses for intensive skill building through
various formats including webinars, assessments, and
hackathons.

TCS’ Youth Employment programs, in India and
LATAM, have supported skills development for
undergraduate students and have provided a
platform for first time employment in the private
sector for many. These trainings have not only
increased self-esteem, status and confidence
but have also led to enhanced mobility, financial
independence and generational growth.

Overall, engineering students experience business
communication, general aptitude and technical skills
over 196 hours while non-engineering students
train in math, analytics, English and technology
over 100 hours. Armed with cross-functional skills,
these youth are then connected to employment
Opportunities across multiple sectors.

Over last year, TCS realised that in rural colleges
where computer and internet access were limited,

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

it was critical to evolve its program model so that
students using smartphones with low bandwidth

or even regular phones were able to connect to
mentors and coaching sessions. The digital pivot
meant mentors and TCS volunteers from every part
of the country, even other parts of the world, could
join in. The initial challenge of mobility became an
opportunity to tap into a larger pool of volunteers,
youth and mentors increasing one-on-one
engagement and learning effectiveness.

In FY 2021, more than 15,000 students were
trained in India and LATAM, and more than 800
students gained employment in sectors such as IT,

BPS, retail, banking and several others. The impact

created by the program, till date, includes,

e = 1.5x enhancement in income in comparison to
male employee in a rural area.

e §=81% indicated that better jobs led to a change of
role as earning member.

e =674% indicated an enhancement of status in the
family and community.

Entrepreneurship

Access to high paying jobs and improved standards
of living are often not available to youth from rural
and marginalized areas. Additionally, lack of proper

 

 

 

During the last three semesters of his graduate program at the Government Engineering
College of Kushalnagar, Rakshith joined the TCS Youth Employment Program for rural
undergraduates, which he describes as a remarkable transformational journey.

Prior to this experience, his family’s sole source of sustenance was their paddy field. After
his training, Rakshith was recruited by a leading IT consulting company. Two years into
employment, Rakshith has not only supported the needs of his family adequately but added to their savings,
enabling them to purchase a coffee estate near their village.

At work, Rakshith has devoted himself to ensuring the same opportunities are made available to many others.
Today, outside his working hours, he conducts at 10 aptitude sessions in every quarter with at least 40-60
students across 14 colleges attending each session.

“The program inspired me develop skills that helped me become a high skilled professional. It also played a
significant role in making me more confident in my communications skills. | believe this program is a necessity for
all rural students who are aspiring to achieve their goals with limited available resources.” says Rakshith.

 

 

Management Discussion and Analysis | 150
digital infrastructure, knowledge and resources in
villages have prevented communities from accessing
opportunities presented by the digital economy.

BridgelT, is a youth entrepreneurship program

that has played a pivotal role in enhancing access

to new opportunities. The program enables
economic growth to be more inclusive allowing
rural entrepreneurship to become key enablers in
overcoming discrimination and raising the standards
of living of those in rural areas.

An intensive training infrastructure, access to digital
tools and resources help youth participants to
emerge as confident, savvy entrepreneurs that are
empowered to offer digitally-enabled services that
not only support their own financial independence,
but also create a the much-needed connect for rural
populations.

With access to digital within its core theory of
change, the program also implements Computer
Aided Learning (CAL) in Government schools and
supports literacy for adults through Computer Based
Functional Literacy (CBFL) modules.

Through FY 2021, the entrepreneurs have
diversified the service lines delivered by them
thereby enhancing their income and standard of
living. These entrepreneurs are also slowly becoming
an organic network of connects for the rural
communities to access the abundance offered by

a highly digitized world. Services such as banking,

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

financial transactions, tele-health and tele-law, as
well as access to government schemes like Ayushman
Golden Cards and farmer support are, as a result,
more easily accessible. Bapi from Odisha started

his entrepreneurial journey in August 2020. In less
than a year’s time, Bapi’s monthly income reached
130,000. Honappa from Karnataka has experienced
a similar trajectory earning %146,000 last month
after only 11 months of being an entrepreneur.

Another critical outcome has been the upward
social mobility and respect for these entrepreneurs
within their communities. For example, Zohming
from Mizoram was elected as the Vice President of
his village council after supporting multiple families
through his services.

As of date, the program has 437 active digital
entrepreneurs, providing digital services to an
average of 200,000 beneficiaries every quarter.

Till date, this robust network of entrepreneurs has
support rural populations across 30 districts and 10
states in India.

Impact created by the program, till date, includes,

e@ = 2x earnings for men in comparison to others
self-employed in rural areas.

e §=6%4 crore aggregate earnings of entrepreneurs

e 95% indicated increased income and improved
standard of living.

@ 92% women indicated higher self esteem at
home.

 

 

 

The community

in Ekta village of
Bharatpur district
in the central
Indian state of
Rajasthan today
lauds the grit, toil
and determination with which Laxmi steered her
family - from economic distress to stability - as
she took on the role of an entrepreneur and a
digital service provider. At 18, Laxmi joined the
BridgelT program, training to use a computer
while enhancing her communication and business
skills. In parallel, she made time to complete her
graduation.

After she acquired digital skills, Laxmi was
provided two laptops to start her own business.
“Lopened a shop at home offering services like
e-Mitra, on-line form filling for issuing fresh
ration cards, Aadhar cards, voter ID cards, pension
withdrawal and anything else that needed to be
enabled digitally,” recalls Laxmi.

Laxmi visited each of the 5,000 households

in her village to market her services. As the
business flourished, her monthly income grew
to % 60,000. Today, Laxmi is a leading supporter
at the local self-help group and has supported
the community with their online documentation,
so that they, in turn, can access the COVID-19
subsidies and relief schemes.

 

 

Management Discussion and Analysis | 151
A TCS Foundation Initiative, Digital Impact Square
(DISQ), an open social innovation center, has
leveraged digital technologies to become an enabler
for growth and transformation. The intervention has
addressed challenges in health and hygiene, food
security, housing and transportation, water, citizen
empowerment and education among several other
critical areas.

Digital Impact Square fosters a culture of innovation
through a series of sustained innovation cycles. This,
in turn, accelerates the journey for many young
ideators to entrepreneurs and innovators. Overall,
the program has supported 11 solutions in reaching
self-sufficiency.

Thought Leadership, Research and Insights

In addition to leveraging emerging technologies
to transform customers’ businesses, TCS is also
using them to transform society. TCS leverages its
intellectual capital to create innovative solutions to
societal challenges and the company does this by
applying its contextual knowledge while engaging
a high-profile and diverse network of leaders to
harness expertise and amplify impact.

In collaboration with the World Economic Forum,

TCS released Closing the Skills Gap: Key Insights and
Success Metrics summarizing a 3-year collaboration
that generated business commitments to skill 17.3

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

million people and includes case studies and lessons
learned from 33 companies and 44 programs.

Digital Empowers

The purpose of Digital Empowers is to raise
awareness on digital technologies and social issues,
explore the art of what’s possible, and foster cross
sector partnerships. The program has primarily
focused on convening four key expert groups from
technology, business, non-profit, and public policy -
to ideate, collaborate and create solutions for social
impact leveraging emerging technologies.

Since inception in 2018, Digital Empowers has
engaged with more than 2,500 experts from UK,
Europe, US and Canada to expand the knowledge
base, explore new solutions and collaborate to
address the most pressing community issues - all
of which have cross sections across the world. In an
effort to further engage and leverage the innovative
nature of the startup community, Digital Empowers
launched Pitch for Purpose in 2020, for founders
of U.S.-based early-stage tech ventures using

their startup as a force for good. Symba’s digital
internships solution won funding and mentorship
support from TCS.

In response to education interruptions caused by the
COVID-19 pandemic TCS produced a Global Insights
Report to provide recommendations to adapt to a
changing education landscape.

 

PITCH FOR PITCH FOR

PATIENTORY, INC.
Cee cis) Meg vad

PITCH FOR

AA,

Eke]

athe

bl T Bal FUNDBLAC KFOouNDERS
AC RENEE

Management Discussion and Analysis | 152
Basic Health and Wellness

TCS has consistently leveraged its technology
capabilities to execute large scale community impact
programs enabling greater access to high quality
healthcare facilities. TCS’s Digital Nerve Centre is a
unique and innovative care delivery model designed
to connect, communicate, coordinate and deliver
care by leveraging people, infrastructure and a
robust digital platform. The primary healthcare
transformations at Kolar has integrated all levels of
public health facilities -from Sub centre, Primary
Health Centre level to District Hospital level on a
single platform to provide the right care through the
right healthcare center.

TCS’ technology support to The Cancer Institute
{Cl) - Chennai and Tata Medical Center (TMC) —
Kolkata has opened new avenues of connection and
real time communication enhancing efficiency and
quality for care.

The Tertiary Health Care Transformation at the
Tata Medical Center (TMC) in Kolkata provided
100% coverage of patients via virtual engagements,
including those that did not show and were not
reachable. Patient care services implemented this
year improved patient satisfaction and reduced
anxiety.

A new clinical dashboard was rolled out this year
to virtually support doctors by providing a holistic

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

view of patient’s clinical reports. To enhance
operational efficiency, enhancements were made

to the management system supporting laboratory
services, billing and finance. All these enhancements
ensure that patients not only benefit from modern
affordable cancer therapy but also from the cost-
effective models of care.

For Operation Smile, an organisation that has
enabled thousands of safe surgeries for those
born with cleft lip and cleft palate, TCS built a
comprehensive Patient Management System to
streamline a patient’s journey.

TCS also supported Tata Trusts in their interventions
for migrant populations in Uttar Pradesh and
Karanataka, India through a holistic Beneficiary
Management System (BMS) and a grievance
management system. A mobile application for

field mobilizers helped capture details and create
sensitizations about Apna Seva Kendras and
government schemes and benefits.

Water Sanitation and Hygiene

Jal Jeevan Mission, a project by the ministry of Jal
Shakti, Government of India has been supported
by the Tata Group with TCS providing key expertise
in applying a ‘Bridgital model’ for monitoring

rural water service delivery as well as enhanced
stakeholder engagement via digitally enabled
workflows. To date, interventions have led to the

co-creation of a smart water management system
to serve potable water to 20 crore rural households
at the lowest cost, empowered the consumers to
enhance their experience by enabling data driven
operations through mobile apps, evangelized the
State Governments to fast track the system roll out,
capacity-built teams and enabled the adoption of a
Utility Operations culture.

Through this year, the program has successfully
piloted and demonstrated benefits from ‘loT based
smart rural water management’ in 7 villages across
4 States. The project has also aided the government
and technical taskforces in developing adequate
standards, governance frameworks and rollout
guidelines.

Pro-Bono Technology Support to Social
Organisations

TCS’ pro-bono technology support interventions
continue to help community-based organizations
across the globe. In FY 2021, the company
supported social organizations like the Women’s
Business Collaborative focused on leveraging

the power of collaboration to accelerate change
for gender inclusion and Chief Executives for
Corporate Purpose (CECP), a CEO-led coalition to
create social impact in North America with services
valued over S2million.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 153
 

 

 
 
 

LEADERS ragazine | Taking 3
Long-Term View

Game (Cae

ese le Services eens ABUL

 

Integrating Sustainability and
Lang-Tere Planning far this..

“Through their pro bono services, TCS gave us, as a non-profit, access to expert developers who helped us design and implement a first-class platform. TCS worked hands-on as
an extension of our team and fully embedded themselves in the development process from start to end as true thought partners.”

  

Stakeholder capitalism and a purpose driven approach Is
becoming critical for companies as consumers and the
society at large is expecting more from businesses. It

is, therefore, important for companies to communicate
more long-term, forward-looking information to key
stakeholders. TCS’ technology enabled solution for
Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP) has
digitally enabled long-term planning for more than 250
of its member companies.

The solution has supported over 30 CEOs on their
journey to refocus investor expectations towards the
long term and corporate sustainability.

 

 

In Australia, TCS provided pro bono technology
empowerment to Australia and New Zealand based
Meals on Wheels, Royal Hospital for Women, Food
Ladder, Charitable Recycling Australia and Biocovid
valued at AS1 million so they could continue to
support people who depended on their services even
during in the pandemic.

bmn Engagement

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS community investments have been actualized,
in a large part, by its large employee base who
generously volunteer their time, skills and expertise
as last-mile connectors. TCS’ Employee Volunteer
Program channeled the unique skillset of its
employees and their ability to address some of the
most pressing issues in countries where they live and
work. In FY 2021, more than 69,000 employees
volunteered over 787,000 hours to support these
initiatives, contributing to Sustainable Development
Goals 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, and 13.

As the pandemic driven global lockdowns were
imposed, TCS developed virtual skills-based
volunteering opportunities via a global catalogue
for associates. Through the Youth Employment
Program, volunteers in India delivered sessions for
youth in Sweden, Germany, US and Australia.

Through TCS’ collaboration with Katalyst, 33
volunteers mentored 53 girls from marginalized
communities in India providing them the exposure to
a new set of experiences and perspectives.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 154
 

A Sakira Banu, IT Analyst,
Chennai: CSR Champion who
changed the lives of 1300
people

At the Oragadam
Thiruvidanthai village in Tamil
Nadu, access to water was a massive Issue, with
only one borewell for 46 families. The greatest
impact was on women and their sanitation and
hygiene. Sakira Banu, through her volunteering
effort, was instrumental in constructing a motor-
based borewell to create access to water for 160
people. Sarika also supported efforts to construct
borewells in Sembakkam and Paloor Villages.

 

At the Hanumanthapuram Government School

in Tamil Nadu, students had to bring water

from their own homes rationing consumption

to ensure they had access to clean drinking

water through the school day. Leveraging her
experience of constructing sustainable borewells,
Sakira liaised with the Block Development Officer,
obtained the necessary approvals, and the school
got a 425 ft borewell and long-term access to
water, leading to better sanitation and hygiene for
the entire school.

In her role as a volunteer champion, Sakira has
also led efforts to plant 100,000 palm seeds
along the coast of Panatyur village to mitigate
excessive soil erosion.

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Through Lab on Bike, implemented in association
with Agastya International Foundation, associates
volunteered to provide more than 600 students and
teachers access to quality hands-on basic education
designed to foster creative thinking, problem-solving
and communication skills. Associates also conducted
computers, English, science and Math lessons for 40
students of Ashram Vinay Mandir School.

Over 2,800 people from rural communities in
Karnataka and Puduccherry were supported by
TCS volunteers. Students were provided access

to computer, internet, multimedia learning while
employment-related mentorship was provided to
the youth. Adults in the villages benefited from the
healthcare advice and awareness programs.

TCSers in China helped set up a computer lab

to facilitate remote education in a distant school

in Gansu province. Employees who, typically,
volunteered in person, spent time via video
conferencing several times a week to teach
students STEM subjects. TCSers in the US and
Canada supported military veterans and youth from
underserved communities through mock interviews
and virtual career coaching, while those in India
volunteered time to lead technical trainings through
its youth employment programs.

Employees also supported disaster relief efforts to
help those affected by typhoon Rolly and Ulysses by

providing kits for communities affected by typhoon
Ulysses and by raising funds.

Empowering Communities to Adapt and be
Resilient to COVID19

As the unprecedented impact of the pandemic

hit communities across the globe, TCS focused

on building resilience. While the safety and well-
being of its employees and ensuring support to

its customers were key, it was equally important

to continue the mission critical services that the
company was performing around the world to help
people transition into this new beginning. TCS
contributed % 250 crore to the PM Cares Fund to
support vulnerable and marginalized populations in
India.

TCS responded to this global community challenge
with great agility, creating essential interventions
including those that supported health and well-
being, facilitated adaptation of education systems
to virtual and remote learning and leveraged a
purpose-driven approach to utilizing its technology
and human capital to create solutions that address
immediate needs of the local communities.

The pandemic pushed medical professionals into
the front lines of the crisis. As a result, there was
an increased need to develop and deliver resources
that support physicians, nurses, care team members

Management Discussion and Analysis | 155
and their families. TCS provided more than 100,000
PPE to police and front-line workers and supported
the building of isolation centers in Noida. The
company also built capacity for 200 doctors across
22 hospitals, in collaboration with Tata Trusts and
CMC Vellore Hospital and Care Institute of Health
Sciences, supporting these essential workers at a
time when the pandemic was at its peak.

2.5 million meals were distributed to 250,000
doctors and medical professionals in partnership
with Indian Hotels Company Ltd. This helped ensure

health and well-being as health professional worked
around the clock. TCS iON CoronaWarriors, an
online learning program, was specifically created for
paramedical and professional healthcare workers on
the fundamentals of infection prevention and control
of COVID-19. This 6-hour course was designed and
curated by healthcare experts at TCS and Harvard
University to provide essential support during the
peak of the pandemic.

For at risk populations such as those with cancer,
TCS’ support to Cancer Institute, Chennai

 

 

death.

 

TCS’ Leaders with Purpose program provides professional development through
hands-on civic leadership training to select champions committed to leveraging
their skills to change the world. The 80-member cohort of 2021 is currently
undergoing expert mentoring sessions and social projects to build socially
conscious leaders within the company’s workforce.

For many years, Anita served as a CSR Champion, helping organize and promote
volunteer opportunities among associates in her account. In 2019, she enrolled for
the program, motivated by a desire to help train and inspire the next generation of
“volunteers to spread the sense of purposefulness across the workforce.”

Through training in community engagement, Anita gained greater insight into the objectives and
opportunities to scale impact through corporate social initiatives. After graduating from the program in the
summer of 2020, Anita remains a true social leader and she is now leading a team of TCS associates in a
pro bono effort benefitting an international disaster relief agency. She also serves on TCS’ inaugural Go Red
Advisory Committee to raise funds and awareness in the fight against heart disease, the global #1 cause of

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

ensured the activation of contact-less patient care
coordination services for over 21,000 patients.
Virtual consultation services implemented at the
hospital proved to be immensely beneficial while the
integration of a COVID assessment helped with early
assessment and the delivery of appropriate care. At
Tata Medical Center Kolkata, Clinicograph™ services
enabled location independent access to review

and analyze patient data to provide care during
lockdowns.

The pandemic had the deepest impact on those
who are most vulnerable, including people living in
poverty, older people, those with disabilities, youth
and minorities. TCS’ support in providing food,
pantry boxes and healthcare products for vulnerable
communities in the U.S., Mexico and Chile ensured
access to basic sustenance. At this time, it was also
important that verified information is made available
for those in rural and disconnected areas. TCS
created content in 10 Indian languages focusing on
physical and emotional well-being as well as guides
to access government relief measures and other
entitlements that were crucial to ensuring wellness
of 450,000 people in India during the lockdowns.

Lending a Helping Hand
TCS family of more than 488,000 global employees
shared TCS’ commitment to support those that

needed it the most — and TCS, in turn, supported

Management Discussion and Analysis | 156
 

  

Bangalore city.

 

= Allit takes is one person to make a difference. Jigar Chadva, a delivery manager and a community champion, realized that he alone could be
7 the start of a movement that would provide support and relief for so many impacted by the pandemic.

He, along with members of his team, took the lead to organize several activities in Bangalore to provide relief to marginalized sections and
those below the poverty line, who are most impacted by the lockdown. Understanding the need for swift action, Jigar worked, for over 2
months, to collect and distribute 450 food packets from central government authorized kitchens for people in and around Whitefield area of

Twenty families also received groceries and supplies worth 710,000. Organizations such as Chaitanya Kuteer, SOS Children’s village and
Vonisha Foundation received a total of 1,000 masks while non-profit Chaitanya Kuteer was also supported with grocery stock of 2 months for
the wellbeing of the children who were under its care.

For his efforts, Jigar was recognized as a CORONA warrior — a special badge issued by the Government of India for those who had selflessly volunteered time in support
of communities and to help others receive immediate relief.

“Thanks to you and your team of warriors for this generous gesture towards community well-being Since these areas are home to people who earn less than %30 a day, these
masks are the much needed and timely protection against any new wave of the pandemic.” - SOS Children’s Villages of India, Bangalore

 

 

their incredible efforts and generosity during

the pandemic. TCS matched 100% of employee
donations, resulting in over 712 crore donated to
global community organizations such as the PM
CARES fund, Feeding America, Canadian Red Cross,
Caritas Manila, Singapore People’s Association and
many others.

TCS associates volunteered time to create awareness
e-communication materials in multiple easily
accessible formats and translated these into four
languages. As a result, over 18,000 beneficiaries in
India had access to WHO guidelines on actions to
adopt to ensure their safety during the pandemic.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Technology and innovation are the core strengths
of TCS, and the company leveraged its expertise

in both to overcome the challenges communities
were facing during the pandemic. Resilience of
social organizations was key if continuity to essential
services had to be maintained. TCS delivered
enhancements to its Beneficiary Management
System (BMS), developed pro-bono for Tata Trust’s
migrant support interventions. Enhancements
included features such as SMS and e-mail
configurations key during the pandemic to create
large scale connects for a population group that was
most impacted by the disconnect.

When stay-at-home orders were rolled out across
the US. to stop the spread, millions of Americans
were left furloughed or laid-off, and without any
certainty of when they would be back to work.
States faced a tremendous challenge in disbursing
unemployment benefits to a large pool of people,
with state IT systems unable to keep pace. TCS
stepped up to offer its technology and consulting
services pro-bono to improve performance and
capacity of benefits systems of New York State while
enabling the processing of 140,000 unemployment
claims during the lockdown. Also, see the story

of how TCS developed a standalone system to

help the State of Connecticut disburse pandemic

Management Discussion and Analysis | 157
unemployment assistance to gig workers and other
independent contractors on Page 29 in this Report.

Bridging education gaps

Virtual learning became an essential service during
the pandemic. Across the globe, there were over

a billion students putting their varying degrees

of digital skills to the test in an effort to keep
themselves safe yet connected. At the same time,
access to at-work skills remained a distant possibility
for marginalized youth. Acknowledging this critical
gap, TCS created support systems for learners of

all ages, educators and parents to make a seamless
transition to remote and online learning.

A digital pivot for TCS’ strategic programs, Ignite

My Future in School, golT and Youth Employment,
ensured that learning continued even if it could

not take place in person. TCS Cares and TCS Yoga,
designed to engage the company’s global workforce,
were also integrated into the program design of

its employment programs in India to ensure much
needed support to students in managing the
negative impacts to their overall well-being during
the pandemic.

TCS’ proprietary iON Digital Glass Room was opened
up for any educational institution across the globe

to utilize free of cost for the entire academic year.
Over 23,000 institutions leveraged the platform to

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

support their educational needs. A 5-day self-paced
digital certification program, Career Edge, was also
specially designed and offered at no cost to university
students and working professionals to enhance their
digital skills during lockdowns.

Where access to virtual learning was disrupted,
TCS’ programs offered distant learning activities
and addressed the digital divide through computer
donations to underserved students in the U.K.,
Singapore, Netherlands and Hungary.

 

Rodney Crouse, a middle
school teacher in North
Carolina and TCS’ Ignite My
» Future in School Learning
Leader realized quickly this
year that computational
thinking strategies will help
his students remain engaged during distance
learning. By integrating the simple strategies
that he learnt from the program, Rodney has
found that students who were struggling to stay
engaged were now taking an initiative.

Today, Rodney collaborates with educators from
Mexico, Canada and the U.S. to help his students
solve the global problem of Food Deserts. “My
kids are living in a food desert, so they are learning
about where they live and how to solve a problem
that affects their community. This project is
relevant to all of their lives.”

 

 

 

While virtual learning facilitated continued
education in a way that wouldn’t have been possible
a decade ago, at home education platforms were
not without their own challenges. TCS created its
Edu VirtualAssist (EVA) to support educators and
parents struggling with common technical issues or
just needing advice on how to get the most out of
the virtual learning experience. EVA leveraged the
expertise, skills and empathy of TCS’ workforce to
provide pro bono support to educators and parents
across the globe.

Extending TCS’ reach

One of the biggest challenges that impacted

rural India during the pandemic was the lack

of connectivity. The digital divide created an
unprecedented lack of access to basic services
rendering several marginalized groups at risk. Digital
entrepreneurs of TCS’ flagship BridgelT program
became the “bridge” to connect communities to
critical services that had all gone virtual. New services
within the CSC platform, such as tele-law and
tele-health, were delivered via these entrepreneurs.
They also provided access to emergency ambulance
services and food for those below the poverty line in
rural regions and distributed health materials, over
6,000 masks, food and protective equipment to
over 200,000 households. From April to August, the
months of highest impact these services supported
more than 157,000 people across India. BridgelT

Management Discussion and Analysis | 158
also leveraged its partner network to provide access

to masks, food, and protective equipment to over
180,000 households in Raichur, Karnataka.

TCS’ Youth Employment Program, additionally,

expanded its reach during the pandemic to support
training for marginalized populations in states such as
Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and

Ladakh.

The company’s work with social entrepreneurs who

have scaled the solutions incubated by the Digital

Impact Square, a TCS Foundation Initiative, served

more than 3.8 Million people in India. Solutions
like a vehicle e-pass system allowed essential and
authorized services to work smoothly during the

lockdown and MahaKavach, helped health authorities
in tracking quarantined patients in Maharashtra, India
in turn supporting the management of the spread of

the disease in critical states.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Awards and Accolades for Social Capital

Named as one of America’s Most Community-
Minded Information Technology Companies for
the fourth consecutive year, and as Technology
Sector Leader for the third year, in the Civic

50 by Points of Light, the world’s largest
organization dedicated to volunteer service.

Recognized among Asia’s Best Companies 2020
for Best Environmental Stewardship and Most
Committed to Social Causes by FinanceAsia.

Named the 2020 Corporate Citizen of the Year
by Economic Times for demonstrating a deep
commitment to society.

Won the 2020 Stevie Gold Award for Best CSR
Strategy in Canada.

Awarded the 2020 CSR China Education Award
by CSR China TOP 100 for its long-term
commitment to STEM.

Awarded by SHRM India for Excellence in
Community Impact at the HR Excellence Awards
2020.

Received an APEX award from Global Compact
Network Singapore for Sustainable Solutions
in recognition of TCS’ Care Seniors Program in
Singapore.

Recognized for its work with Million Women
Mentors at the 17 Annual Innovations in
Diversity & Inclusion Awards. ‘

Management Discussion and Analysis | 159
Business Responsibility Report 9. Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the
Company:
This section is as per Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (a) Number of International Locations (Provide details of major 5):
76 delivery centres

 

Section A: General information about the company

 

Breakup for the top 5 regions is as below:

 

 

 

 

 

L22210MH1995PLC084781 UK and Ireland a5
2. Name of the Company: Tata Consultancy Services Limited North America 19
: - sy: . . Latin America 19

3. Registered address: 9" Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, - -
Mumbai - 400 021, India Asia Pacific 10
Europe 7

4. Website: www.tcs.com

MEA 1

 

 

 

 

5. E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com . .
(b) Number of National Locations: 107

6. Financial Year reported: Apri! 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 . .
10. Markets served by the Company — Local/State/National/International:

7. Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code-wise): North America, Latin America, United Kingdom and Ireland, Continental Europe,

ITC CODE: 85249009 Product Description: Computer Software Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, and India.
8. List three key products/services that the Company manufactures/provides

(as in balance sheet): Consulting and Service Integration, Digital Transformation
Services and Cognitive Business Operations.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 160
 

Section B: Financial details of the company

 

1.
2.

Paid up Capital (INR): 370 crores
Total Turnover (INR): 164,177 crores
Total profit after taxes (INR): 32,430 crores

Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as percentage
of profit after tax (%): 2.03% of average net profit for previous three years in
respect of standalone TCS (India Initiatives only)

List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred:

Disaster Relief - COVID 19 273

Education, Skilling, Employment, Entrepreneurship 28

Health, Wellness and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) 22

Heritage 1
Contribution to Foundations/Trusts 350
Total 674

 

Including overseas spend, the Company’s total spending on Corporate Social
Responsibility is = 737 crore

Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that the
Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of the
Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] No.

 

Section D: BR information

 

 

Section C: Other details

 

Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies? Yes

Do the Subsidiary Company/ Companies participate in the BR Initiatives of
the parent company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary
company(s): Yes, 49 subsidiaries participated

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR

(a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation of
the BR policy/policies

The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board of
Directors is responsible for implementation of BR policies. The members
of the CSR Committee are as follows:

 

 

DIN Number Name Designation
00121863 N Chandrasekaran Chairman

00548091 O P Bhatt Independent Director
07006215 N Ganapathy Subramaniam | Chief Operating Officer

 

 

 

 

{b) Details of the BR head

Name: Milind Lakkad
Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer
Telephone number: 022 67789999

E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

Management Discussion and Analysis | 161

 
2. Principle wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies

The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted

nine areas of Business Responsibility. These briefly are as follows:

P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees

P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights

P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment

P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Do you have a policy / policies for... Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

2 Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

3 Does the policy conform to any national / international standards? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

4 Has the policy been approved by the Board? If yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/ CEO/appropriate Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
Board Director?

5 Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the Y* Y* Y* y** Y* yrs Y* Y* Y*
implementation of the policy? Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?

6 Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and external stakeholders? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

7 Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/ policies? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 162
Cai R Celiarelary al ae P3 P4 P5 P6 aA P8 P9

Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/ policies?

 

9 Has the company carried out independent audit/ evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal Y N Y N N Y N N Y
or external agency?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* TATA Code of Conduct (https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct)

** CSR Policy (https:/on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy;
*** Environment Policy (https:/on.tcs.com/Environmental-Policy}

 

 

3. Governance related to BR Section E: Principle wise performance

 

 

(a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee Principle 1
of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company. . . . . .
Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year: 7 Board 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the

Meetings were held during the year. company? No

(b) Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/
the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? NGOs/ Others? Yes
Yes, the Company publishes a Sustainability Report every year as part of
the Integrated Annual Report. The hyperlink is: https://on.tcs.com/Annual-
Report-2021

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial
year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so: In FY 2021, 184
concerns from various stakeholders were received via various channels. Of these,
167 (91%) were satisfactorily resolved as on March 31, 2021, and the remaining
concerns are a work in progress to be resolved following due processes.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Management Discussion and Analysis | 163
 

Principle 2

 

1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated
social or environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities:

1.

TCS Evirozone™ is a suite of products designed with environmental
sustainability as a central focus for the Consumer and Packaged Goods
industry. This includes:

o TCS Envirozone™O-Zone for Responsible Sourcing. O-Zone brings
a holistic view to manage supply chain sustainability risks by tracking
and mitigating water stress, food toxicity, climate and social risks from a
complex network of suppliers upstream.

o TCS Envirozone™ iCloseLoop — This is a Recycling Marketplace that
helps in achieving a unified view of the journey towards sustainable
packaging and a circular economy. It serves as an input to strategic
decisions on product packaging and extended producer responsibility.

o TCS Envirozone™ Net-Zero — Net-Zero is a Carbon Management
Solution that enables accounting and management of value chain

emissions for better visibility on climate risk. It also enables stakeholders’

engagement for shared ownership of carbon mitigation programs.

Digital Farming Initiative (DFI): TCS’ Digital Farming Initiative is a
platform that personalizes data support to the level of each farmer and
field. It hopes to transform the complete supply chain of the agri eco-system
through the application of innovative protocol-centric, data-driven, “Sky-
Earth” convergence technologies, thereby improve farmer livelihoods. It also
works through creation of rural nuclei of growth called PRIDEs (Progressive
Rural Integrated Digital Enterprises).

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

3. Virtual HABilitation (VHAB) - TCS’ VHAB aims at providing a full-
fledged application platform for children having difficulties in limb, muscular
movements and general behavioral traits. A cost efficient solution built
on gesture reality, leap motion and virtual reality platforms that builds a
personalized suite of exercises for various kinds of movements for hands, legs
and palms, that are fun, interactive and ensure development

For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource
used (Energy, Water, Raw material etc.) per unit of product (optional)

a) Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved since
the previous year throughout the value chain?

o = Envirozone™: This is a digital product, therefore not applicable.
o Digital Farming Initiative: Not Applicable
o Virtual HABilitation (VHAB) - Not Applicable

b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been
achieved since the previous year:

Envirozone™: The products listed above are TCS’ new digital offerings that
enable better environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance

for the Company’s customers. These solutions have proven ability to better
manage ESG risk and accelerate its customers’ sustainability journeys
towards responsible sourcing, net-zero carbon, circular economy, and brand
neutrality. Each customer's journey has been different; but ESG performance
has improved in each case.

Digital Farming Initiative The following improvements have been achieved
with respect to environmental impact:

o Reduction in chemicals usage (20 kgs/hectare): 50,400 tons

Management Discussion and Analysis | 164
3.

o = Reduction methane and CO2 emissions: 7,500 tons/year
o ~~ Reduction in water usage: 2.4million litres/season

o Reduction in electricity usage: Imillion units/year
Virtual HABilitation (VHAB) — Not Applicable

Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing
{including transportation)?

{a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also,
y' Pp g y' P' ly
provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

TCS’ suppliers sign the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Tata Code of
Conduct. The Company’s policy on supply chain sustainability can be found
here: https://on.tcs.com/Sustainable-Supply-Chain-Policy

Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from
local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place of
work? Yes

(a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and
capability of local and small vendors?

While the criteria for selection of goods and services is quality, reliability and
price, TCS gives preference to small organisations, particularly promoted by
entrepreneurs from socially backward communities. TCS has conducted a
value stream mapping of their manufacturing lines, identified opportunities
for process and productivity improvements and facilitated capacity planning.
TCS has also supported suppliers to meet their raw material / hardware
purchasing needs from Tier II suppliers. This has helped the suppliers to
improve their own capacity.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS has played a key role in enhancing Small and Medium Enterprises’
manufacturing capability by identifying gaps in the process as compared to
customer processes and supporting the SME by training and handholding to
overcome those gaps. One example of supporting these key activities is by
helping the supplier create a specific FAI (First Article Inspection) process so
that components can be developed and inspected in record time and shipped
to customer.

Beyond the company’s own procurement system, TCS ts increasing the
capacity of Self Help Groups and entrepreneurs through its BridgelT and
Adult Literacy programs and community investments.

 

 

5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes
what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as
10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so:
Yes. For more details please refer to FY 2021 Performance Overview: Natural
Capital which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report

Principle 3

1. Please indicate the Total number of employees:
488,649 as on March 31, 2021

2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/
contractual/ casual basis: 18,259 as on March 31, 2021

3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees:

178,357 as on March 31, 2021
4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities:

825 as on March 31, 2021

Management Discussion and Analysis | 165
Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?
Yes

What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this
recognized employee association? 0.03% (For India)

Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour, forced
labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and
pending, as on the end of the financial year:

The Company has adopted a policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal
of sexual harassment at the workplace in line with the provisions of the Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013 (India) and the Rules thereunder.

During FY 2021, the Company has received 27 complaints of sexual
harassment, out of which 19 complaints have been resolved with appropriate
action taken and 8 complaints remain pending as on March 31, 2021. Internal
review is under progress for the pending complaints, following due process.

There have been no complaints in other areas.

What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety &
skill upgradation training in the last year?

(a) Permanent Employees — 99.7%
(b) Permanent Women Employees — 99.7%
(c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees — 78.3%

(d) Employees with Disabilities - 99.4%

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Principle 4

 

1.
2.

Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes

Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged,
vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders: Yes

Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders? If so, provide
details thereof, in about 50 words or so:

Yes. Please refer to the section on FY 2021 Performance Overview: Social Capital
in this Integrated Annual Report for details on the Company's Adult Literacy
Program, Bridge IT, Youth Employment programs among others.

 

Principle 5

 

1.

Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company
or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/
Others?

The principles stated in the Company's code and policies which include respect for
human rights and dignity of all stakeholders, extend to the group, joint ventures,
suppliers and all those who work with TCS.

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial
year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management?
No material concern related to violation of fundamental human rights of
individuals was received during the financial year.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 166
 

 

 

 

Principle 6 Principle 7

1) Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If
to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. Yes, Name only those major ones that your business deals with:

The policy is applicable to TCS, its subsidiaries and vendors. Yes. National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM),
Confederation of Indian Industries (Cll), Federation of India Chambers of

2) Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global Commerce and Industry (FICCI), US India Business Council (USIBC), US Chamber
environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc? Y/N. If of Commerce and Confederation of British Industry (CBI).
yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc:

Yes.. Please refer to the section on FY 2021 Performance Overview: Natural 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the

Capital in this Integrated Annual Report and https://www.tcs.com/sustainability- advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/ No; if yes specify

strategy. TCS’ Environmental Policy is available on https://on.tcs.com/ the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic

Environmental-Policy Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food
. . . . . Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others):

3) Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Yes. Yes. TCS participated in consultations on governance and administration,

4) Does the company have any project related to Clean Development sustainable business principles, inclusive development policies (with q focus on
Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if skill building and literacy), economic reforms and tax and other legislations. TCS
Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? uses the Tata Code of Conduct as a guide for its actions in influencing public and
Not Applicable regulatory policy.

5) Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on — clean technology, Principle 8
energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink
for web page etc. 1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/ projects in
Yes. Please refer to the section on FY 2021 Performance Overview: Natural pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof?

Capital in this Integrated Annual Report. Yes. Please refer to the preceding section on FY 2021 Performance Overview:
mo. wo, vy Social Capital in this Integrated Annual Report.

6) Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible
limits given by CPCB/SPCE for the financial year being reported? Yes. 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own

foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization?

7) Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are

pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. None

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

TCS uses all of these modes.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 167
Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?

TCS has been conducting internal impact assessments to monitor and evaluate its
strategic CSR programs. The Company takes cognizance of sub-rule (3) of rule

8 of the Companies CSR Policy Rules 2014 and has initiated steps to conduct
impact assessment of CSR projects through an independent agency. There are no
projects undertaken or completed after 22" January 2021, for which the impact
assessment report is applicable in FY 2021.

What is your company’s direct contribution to community development
projects- Amount in INR and the details of the projects undertaken?

737 crore, including overseas spend. For more details, please refer to Annexure II
of Directors’ Report in this Integrated Annual Report.

Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development
initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50
words, or so.

Yes.The CSR initiatives of the Company are executed by a skilled team who ensure
impact-focused implementation, monitoring, and reporting. Successful adoption
of programs is evidenced by the following impact achieved, till date, in its strategic
programs:

e §=23,800 rural youth employed through Youth Employment Program

e =§=325,000 villagers supported with digital services by 466 BridgelT
entrepreneurs

@ = 1.07 million individuals, including over 70,000 prison inmates, made literate
though the Adult Literacy Program

Please refer to the section on FY 2021 Performance Overview: Social Capital in
this Integrated Annual Report for further details.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Principle 9

 

1.

What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as
on the end of financial year.
5.8% complaints are pending resolution as on March 31, 2021.

Does the company display product information on the product label,
over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A./Remarks
{additional information):

Not Applicable

Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding
unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anticompetitive
behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial
year? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so:

No

Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction
trends?

Yes @\

Management Discussion and Analysis | 168
FY 2021 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW:
NATURAL CAPITAL

TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the
belief that it can strengthen its business while also
valuing the environment and its ecosystem. TCS

is in a Unique position to combine its heritage of
purpose along with digital leadership and innovation
to drive its own journey to more sustainable
outcomes, as well as partner with customers, civil
society and governments to lead and shape solutions
towards the achievement of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals.

TCS’ leadership commitment builds on the significant
progress it has already made in reducing its
environmental footprint. It is driven by the belief
that business success and sustainability-driven
decisions are one and the same thing for a future-fit
business, and banks on the passion of its employees,
shareholders, suppliers, and customers to support

its progress on this journey. TCS is focused on
harnessing its core business capabilities to lead and
influence change with its primary stakeholders across
four key areas:

e = Accelerating TCS’ journey towards net zero:
Having achieved the previous target of halving
the specific carbon footprint by 202077 (versus

baseline year FY 2008) ahead of schedule,

the Company has set a new carbon reduction
target. It commits to reduce absolute Scope 1
+ Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 70%
by 2025 over a 2016 base year. It aspires

to achieve net-zero emissions by 2030. Key
strategies include energy efficiency across
operations, expanded use of renewable energy
sources, working with supply chain partners to
reduce value chain emissions and optimizing
business air travel and employee commutes.
The Company’s Vision 25x25 is a strategic
lever which will enable achieving this aspiration,
along with carbon removal offsets. Further, the
Company has identified two markets and two
delivery centers where it will become carbon
neutral before the close of FY 2022.

Influencing and enabling future generations:
TCS is one of the largest creators of skilled

jobs globally. It encourages students to build

the skills and confidence to pursue STEM
education and careers and become tomorrow’s
technology and business leaders. It is committed
to imparting digital skills and capabilities to

at least 5 million youths by 2025. Another
initiative to inspire and empower young minds
to solve real-world environmental problems

through digital technology was launched at TCS’
first Sustainathon in Singapore in 2020. The
challenge focused on solutions for food waste
management which amplified the critical role
that sustainability and success of the UN SDGs
play in the creation of a better future.

Partnering with customers for more
sustainable outcomes: Beyond its own
footprint, TCS is actively engaged with
customers and partners to help shape and
deliver their journey to more sustainable and
future-fit businesses. It sees greater potential

in enabling efficiencies and climate action
through its digital solutions for customers,
higher than what it can accomplish within its
own organizational boundaries. TCS offers digital
solutions that use cutting edge technologies

for intelligent energy management that reduces
energy consumption, evaluation of portfolio
climate risks for decision making, GreenlIT,
logistics route optimization, scope 1, 2 & 3
carbon emission foot printing and enabling
blockchain-based Renewable Energy Certificate
marketplaces. In addition, it plans to partner with
customers strategically to deliver carbon neutral
operations together.

 

27 In the past years, TCS has successfully reduced its specific energy consumption in kWh/FTE by over 60% in FY 2020 over the baseline year FY 2008, and brought down its specific carbon
footprint from Scope 1 and Scope 2 from 3 tCO2/FTE in FY 2008 to 1.15 tCO2e/FTE in FY 2020, a reduction of 61.6%.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 169
e Empowering employees to lead the change: To
harness the energy of millennial employees who
also have high levels of social and environmental
awareness, TCS plans to involve them as part
of incubation teams that rethink the business
models and operations of today, and also
increase their self-awareness of their role as
change agents through awareness/training and
action. The Company has launched programs
to influence conscious choices as individuals
and families, and facilitate measurement and
monitoring of an individual’s ecological footprint.

Key Focus Areas

The four key focus areas of the Company's
environmental strategy are:

e Energy management: Energy efficiency
through green infrastructure and operational
efficiency

e = Carbon footprint reduction: Maximizing energy
efficiency and use of renewable energy

e Water management: Efficient use, recycling and
rainwater harvesting

e Waste management: Reduction, Reuse and
Recycling

TCS is certified under the ISO 14001:2015
Environmental Management System (EMS) standard,
across 120 locations globally. The management
system has integrated environmental (including
climate change) risks and opportunities with TCS’
business strategy. The company measures, manages
and reports on energy, carbon, water and waste

— the most material environmental aspects of its
operations.

Impact of SWBS™

The company’s environmental footprint was
significantly reduced in FY 2021 due to the large-
scale switch to remote working, enabled by the
Secure Borderless Workspaces operating model.
With over 96% of employees working from home
throughout the year, resource consumption,
emissions and wastes were significantly lower
across all the parameters. However, despite the low
occupancy rates of 3-4%, utilities across facilities
had to be run at base load to ensure the overall
health of the facility and systems. Moreover, the data
centers supporting connectivity from home had to
be operated as usual, and consumed the usual level
of energy. Consequently, resource consumption
reduced to the tune of 40% to 50% despite the low
physical occupancy.

Low quantities of food waste were generated as
canteens and food services were operating at a bare
minimum. Air travel and employee commutes were
extremely limited and hence the carbon footprint
associated with them also reduced significantly.

Managing the Carbon Footprint?®

TCS has embraced the precautionary principle

and recognized carbon footprint mitigation and
energy optimization as a high priority area®®. With
an operational footprint that consists largely

of campuses of office blocks for the delivery
organization, and sales offices, direct emissions from
operations — also referred to as Scope 1 emissions
— are a very small part of the company’s carbon
footprint, amounting to just 8% of the overall carbon
footprint. The rest is made up of indirect emissions,
referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with
purchased electricity*®.

Due to the pandemic, all energy utilities had to

be operated at base load for cooling and lighting
systems, data centers and server rooms, to optimize
the energy use. The absolute energy consumption
is down by 46.6% YoY and absolute carbon footprint

 

*8 103-2, 103-3

29 102-11: Earliest reference on Page 5, TCS Corporate Sustainability Report 2006-07
3° 302-1, In FY 2021, TCS consumed 292 GWh of electricity of which 15.6% was from renewable sources, ~1% from onsite utilities and the remaining was purchased electricity. Total direct
energy used was 0.04 Million GJ and total direct plus indirect energy used was 1.04 million GJ. The total electricity consumed, as well as direct energy usage, has gone down, due to lockdowns.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 170
(Scope 1 + Scope 2)*! is down by 48.8% YoY*?. TCS’
estimated*? specific greenhouse gas emission (Scope
1 + Scope 2) was 0.54 tCO2e/ FTE/Annum in the
current reporting year, a reduction of 53% Y-O-Y.
The specific carbon footprint data is presented for
the sake of continuity and is not comparable with the
prior years.

The Path to Energy Efficiency*™*

Addition of more green buildings to the company’s
real estate portfolio, installing roof top solar power
plants across campuses, optimizing IT system power
usage, upgrading legacy equipment with state-
of-the-art technology, and improving operational
efficiency through the inhouse -built, loT-based
Remote Energy Management System has helped
reduce the specific energy consumption year on
year. This reduction has been despite the growth
in employees, commissioning of new facilities and
ramping up within existing facilities.

Over 60% of the total office space currently occupied
by TCS in India is designed as per the Leadership

in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green
building standards. In FY 2021, the company added

more rooftop solar, taking the total on-site roof

top solar capacity across its campuses to 8.1 MWp.
This increased the solar electricity generation
capacity to 11 million units within campuses. The
total renewable energy quantum including on-site
rooftop and third-party power purchase agreements
is about 45.5 million units in FY 2021, which is about
15.6% of the total energy mix. On-site rooftop solar
contributed about 2.5% of the total electricity mix.

In FY 2021, solar photo voltaic cells technology

was upgraded from polycrystalline solar panels to
monocrystalline PERC technology panels. This
helped to improve the project capacity and power
generation by 13% and 17% respectively in the same
given rooftop space. An elevated solar installation
was successfully piloted around the lake area at
Synergy park campus in Hyderabad to utilize the
cooling effect of water on solar panels.

Data center power management initiatives helped
achieve the target power utilization efficiency (PUE)
of 1.65 at 21 Data Centers and reduce weighted
average PUE of 23 Data Centers to 1.66 this year
from 2.54 in 2014. An additional 44 Data centers

were also taken up and the weighted average PUE
of all DCs reduced to 1.77 this year from 2.4 in
2017. The key enablers have been green data center
practices leveraging technologies like modular UPS,
cold aisle containment, in-row cooling and rear door
heat exchanger with water cooled rack. The rack per
user ratio was also improved. There is a shift towards
use of servers that enable high degree of virtualized
hosting capability on smaller physical footprint and
thus reduce the overall requirement for space, power
and cooling.

As the established standard operating procedures
were recalibrated on the basis of the base load for
cooling and lighting systems, data centers and server
rooms, to optimize energy use; the investments
made in the loT based energy management platform
and the energy operations command center

paid good dividends. The cognitive Al / ML based
algorithms came into play and were able to quickly
define a ‘new normal’ consumption profile based

on the significantly reduced activities. With this,

the energy analysts at the command center were
able to get insights on possible areas of additional
optimization during the COVID- 19 period.

 

31 Scope 1 emissions have been calculated using the emissions factors published by the GHG (greenhouse) Protocol All Sector Tools version released in 2017. For Scope 2 emissions — that is,
purchased electricity-related carbon emissions — for India, the source is the emissions factor in the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, User Guide, Version 15.0, Dec 2019,
published by the Central Electricity Authority of India. For Scope 2 emissions of locations other than India, IEA emission factors 2020 have been used.

32 305-1, 210,278 tCOZe in FY 2021 vs 410,971 tCO2e in FY 2020

33 Based on actual carbon footprint and notional headcount associated with each center, assuming FTE growth in line with overall net headcount addition.

34103-2, 103-3
Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Management Discussion and Analysis | 171
Cooling and lighting were aligned, in a continuous
manner, to the reduced operations demand. Base
load requirements (UPS, cooling, etc) were analysed
in the context of the new normal and optimized
through initiatives such as consolidation of hub
rooms, consolidation of workspaces within many

of the operational facilities, and consolidation of
facilities. Once the optimizations were achieved, the
consumption at the appropriate levels of granularity
were continuously monitored through automated
alerts, to ensure that any consumption leakages
were immediately identified and addressed. The
company has saved ~0.4 million units of electricity
through UPS and server rooms consolidation.

ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management System
certification audits were successfully extended

at four campuses in India in FY 2021, taking the
total count of certified locations to five. Synergy
Park - Hyderabad, TCS Center - Kochi, Garima
Park - Ahmedabad and Siruseri - Chennai have
been recommended for new certification and
Sahayadri Park - Pune has been recommended for
continuation of certification.

Other Emissions

Emissions of Ozone-depleting substances primarily
occur during operation and maintenance of air
conditioning systems in the form of system losses or

fugitive emissions. TCS is committed to using zero-

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

ozone depleting potential (ODP) refrigerants in its
operations. New facilities have HVAC systems based
on zero-ODP refrigerants as well as a low Global
Warming Potential (GWP). All ODP refrigerant gases
will be phased out and replaced with zero-ODP
refrigerants, in line with country-specific timelines
agreed to as per the Montreal Protocol and local
regulations.

Value Chain Emissions

All other indirect emissions are accounted by TCS as
Scope 3 emissions. These are also known as value
chain emissions because they are caused by sources
not owned or controlled by TCS but are relevant to
its Operations and in its value chain. The company
estimates that value chain emissions amounted to
234,615 tCO2e, which is 0.50 tCO2e per FTE in FY
2021, by applying an expansive boundary and using
standard Scope 3 emission factors.

Low occupancy in offices and significantly reduced
business travel and employee commuting has
resulted in a reduction in the Scope 3 emissions.
The largest contributors in earlier reporting years,
amounting to ~60%, were business travel intrinsic
to the consultancy business model, and daily
workplace commutes of employees. Both these
categories saw a reduction of more than 95% in FY
2021. TCS’ investment in superior communications,
remote connectivity and data security to promote

greater collaboration in the new normal has ensured
seamless business communication despite constraints
on in-person meetings and business discussions.

Water Conservation*®

TCS optimizes water consumption through
conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and
rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been
designed for 50% higher water efficiency, 100%
treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater
harvesting. Employee engagement also plays a big
role in the company’s water sustainability strategy.

In FY 2021, TCS consumed 1.4 million kL*¢ of fresh
water. Out of this, 73% was from municipal sources,
13% from third party suppliers, 8% from groundwater
and 6% from rainwater harvested at the campuses.
Absolute water consumption was 63.9% lower in FY
2021 as compared to FY 2020. The focus had been
on restricting the use of water for maintenance and
upkeep of the offices. On-campus sewage treatment
plants were run at below capacity to ensure the
sewage is treated and recycled. Total treated sewage
recycled as a percentage of the total sewage
generated was ~54% in FY 2021°”.

 

35 103-2, 103-3
36 303-3
37 306-1

Management Discussion and Analysis | 172
The company continues to pursue groundwater
replenishment initiatives through on-campus
rainwater harvesting systems, and community
water shed management projects. TCS continues
to support initiatives on surface water body
rejuvenation at Siruseri in Chennai, Kasalganga in
Solapur and Malguzari ponds in Vidarbha.

Waste Reduction and Reuse

As an IT services and consulting organization, TCS’
facilities mostly generate electronic, electrical, and
municipal solid waste. Potentially hazardous and
regulated wastes such as lead-acid batteries and
waste lube oil are generated in relatively smaller
proportions. The waste generation across all waste
categories reduced due to the limited operations in
FY 2021.

TCS is committed to sustain the best practices that
have already been institutionalized like segregation
of all recyclable wastes, 100% compliance to
management practices for regulated wastes like
hazardous and e-waste and 100% recycling on
printer and toner cartridges, paper and packaging
wastes. TCS aspires to improve the waste
management practices and achieve 100% onsite

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

treatment of food waste. The aim is to divert all
garden waste to composting to generate organic
manure. Elimination of single-use plastics across
campuses and recycling of all recyclable plastic
wastes remain as focus areas.

Biodegradable waste is treated onsite for biogas
recovery or manure generation through bio-
digesters or composting. All TCS campuses, owned
offices and leased offices that have the required
space have been provided with on-site food
waste management facilities. In FY 2021, due

to low quantities of waste generated, the waste
management systems could not be operated
optimally as they are designed for higher capacity.
Small organic waste handling units were piloted
for use across leased locations which are space
constrained. Over 162 tons of compost were
generated in FY 2021, reducing the need for
chemical fertilizers and the resultant soil and
groundwater pollution.

Employee Engagement

TCS observed the Tata Sustainability Month in
June’20, featuring a fully digital campaign on the
theme ‘Time for Nature’ consisting of multiple

online contests, live sessions, webinars with eminent
speakers on topics related to conservation and
environment, and multiple blogs on TCS internal
social media platform to sensitize associates

and share knowledge on the topic. Over 9,000
employees participated in this campaign.

The year-round calendar for engaging with
employees to create environmental awareness
included themes aligned with the World Bio-diversity
Day, World Environment Week, World Ozone

Day, Green Consumer Day, World Wildlife Week,
Pollution Control Day, Energy Conservation Day,
World Water Day and the Earth Hour campaign.

The company’s purpose-driven worldview inspires
many employees to undertake volunteering in their
local communities around environmental themes.
This year, associates innovated and engaged in
activities in their homes and neighborhood to keep
up the spirit of care for environment. Employees
grew plants and trees in and around their homes with
their families. Some took up urban farming assisted
by a phygital workshop on ‘how to grow your own
food’. Green consumerism through a stronger focus
on ‘buy local’ saw traction among associates. AN

Management Discussion and Analysis | 173
Consolidated
Financial
Statements

 

Independent Auditors’ Report

To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the consolidated financial
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”)
and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”),
which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as
at 31 March 2021, and the consolidated statement
of profit and loss (including other comprehensive
income), consolidated statement of changes in
equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for
the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated
financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information (hereinafter referred to as “the
consolidated financial statements”).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid
consolidated financial statements give the information
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in

the manner so required and give a true and fair view

in conformity with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs

of the Group as at 31 March 2021, of its consolidated

profit and other comprehensive income, consolidated
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows for the
year then ended.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated
Financial Statements section of our report. We are
independent of the Group in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the consolidated financial statements in terms

of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India, and the relevant
provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion on consolidated
financial statements.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in
our professional judgment, were of most significance
in our audit of the consolidated financial statements
of the current period. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the consolidated
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 174
Description of Key Audit Matters Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Key audit matters Bea Remeber Celpetscore Rag Coe CAEL LIED @ these contracts may involve onerous |® On selected specific and statistical samples of

 

we . : obligations which requires critical contracts, we tested that the revenue recognized

Revenue recognition— Fixed price contracts _ : a
assessment of foreseeable losses to be Is In accordance with the revenue recognition

The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price | Our audit procedures included the following: made by the Group; and accounting standard —
contracts, wherein, revenue is recognized = /e Obtained an understanding of the systems, @ at year-end, significant amount of > Evaluated the identification of performance
using the percentage of completion processes and controls implemented by the Group work in progress (Contract assets), obligations and the ascribed transaction price;
computed as per the input method based for recording and computing revenue and the related to these contracts are recognised > Tested the Group's computation of the
on the Group's estimate of contract costs

associated contract assets, unearned and deferred on the balance sheet.
Refer Note 5{a} and Note 12 to the ae .
( / (a) 3 revenue balances. obligations, if any. We:
consolidated financial statements}. oe -

@ Including involvement of our Information @ assessed that the estimates of costs to
We identified revenue recognition of fixed technology (‘IT} specialists, as required: complete were reviewed and approved

estimation of contract costs and onerous

Price contracts as a > Assessed the IT environment in which the by appropriate designated management

Key Audit Matter since — business systems operate and tested system personnel;

@ there is an inherent risk and presumed controls over computation of revenue ¢ performed a retrospective analysis of costs
fraud risk around the accuracy and recognised; incurred with estimated costs to identify
existence of revenues recognised » Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of significant variations and challenged
considering the customised and complex cost and revenue reports generated by the whether those variations are required to be
nature of these contracts and significant system; considered in estimating the remaining costs
inputs of IT systems, > Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of to complete the contract;

© application of revenue recognition resources and budgeting systems which prevent @ assessed the appropriateness of work
accounting standard (Ind AS 115, the unauthorized recording/changes to costs in progress (contract assets} on balance
Revenue from Contracts with customers} incurred; and sheet date by evaluating the underlying
is complex and involves a number of » Tested on a random sampling basis the controls documentation to identify possible
key Judgments and estimates mainly n relating to the estimation of contract costs changes in estimated costs to complete the
identifying performance obligations, required to complete the respective projects. remaining performance obligations; and

related transaction price and estimating
the future cost-to- completion of these
contracts, which Is used to determine
the percentage of completion of the
relevant performance obligation;

@ inspected underlying documents and
performed analytics to determine
reasonableness of contract costs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 175
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Evaluation of key tax matters

 

The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions
and is subject to periodic challenges by local
tax authorities on a range of tax matters
during the normal course of business
including transfer pricing and indirect

tax matters. These involve significant
judgment by the Group to determine the
possible outcome of the uncertain tax
positions, consequently having an impact
on related accounting and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements.

Refer Note 5(e} and Note 20 to the
consolidated financial statements.

Our audit procedures included the following:

e Understood, assessed and tested the design,
implementation and operating effectiveness of key
controls over taxes;

@ Obtained an understanding of key tax matters;
@ The audit team, along with our internal tax experts -

» read and analysed select key correspondences,
external legal opinions/ consultations obtained
by the Group for key tax matters;

» evaluated and challenged key assumptions made
by the Group in estimating the current and
deferred tax balances;

» assessed and challenged the Group’s estimate of
the possible outcome of the disputed cases by
considering legal precedence and other judicial
rulings; and

» Assessed and tested the presentation and
disclosures relating to taxes in the consolidated
financial statements.

 

Assessment of provision towards legal claim

Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter

The Group has ongoing legal proceedings
with Epic Systems Corporation (referred to
as Epic}, for alleged unauthorised access

to and download of Epic’s confidential
information and use thereof in the
development of the Company's product
MedMantra. The Company in the current
year has recorded a provision of

71,218 crore (US $165 million} towards this
legal claim in its ‘Consolidated Statement of
Profit and Loss’. This has been presented as
an “exceptional item” in the Consolidated
Statement of Profit and Loss.

Due to the complexity involved in this
litigation, the Group applied judgement in
measuring and recognizing provision towards
the legal claim. This process involved an
evaluation based on judicial precedents

and views shared by the lawyers (external
and internal} of the Group and detailed
deliberations with the Group's senior
management. Accordingly, it has been
considered as a key audit matter.

 

 

read and considered final orders by various courts
on this matter;

read and considered all available submissions filed by
both Epic and the Group to various courts till date;
considered legal views obtained by the Group

from external law firms and the relevant judicial
precedents considered by the Group in their
assessment of provision towards this legal claim;
conducted detailed discussions with in-house

legal head and Group's senior management, to
understand their assessment on the most likely
outcome of this litigation and to understand the
basis considered for the provision towards this legal
claim; and

assessed the adequacy of provision recorded and
evaluated disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements in relation to this legal claim.

 

Refer to Note 5(f} to the consolidated
financial statements — “Use of estimates and
judgements — Provisions and contingent
liabilities” and Note 20 to the consolidated
financial statements — “Commitments and
contingencies”

 

 

Our audit procedures included the following:

@ obtained management assessment on the litigation
along with the communications made to the Board
of Directors and regulators;

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Consolidated Financial Statements | 176

 
Other Information

The Holding Company’s management and Board of
Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information
included in the Holding Company's Annual Report,
but does not include the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements
does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the
other information and, in doing so, consider whether
the other information is materially inconsistent

with the consolidated financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management and Those
Charged with Governance for the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The Holding Company’s management and Board
of Directors are responsible for the preparation
and presentation of these consolidated financial

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

statements in terms of the requirements of the Act
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated
state of affairs, consolidated profit/loss and other
comprehensive income, consolidated statement

of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows

of the Group in accordance with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under
Section 133 of the Act. The respective management
and Board of Directors of the entities included

in the Group are responsible for maintenance of
adequate accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of
each entity and for preventing and detecting frauds
and other irregularities; the selection and application
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

and the design, implementation and maintenance

of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to
the preparation and presentation of the consolidated
financial statements that give a true and fair view
and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial
statements by the management and Board of
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements,
the respective management and Board of Directors

of the entities included in the Group are responsible
for assessing the ability of each entity to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the respective
management and Board of Directors either intends
to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has
no realistic alternative but to do so.

The respective Board of Directors of the entities
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of each entity.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the consolidated financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue

an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance Is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with SAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material

if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 177
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we
exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We
also:

e Identify and assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that Is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.

@ = Obtain an understanding of internal control
relevant to the audit in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the
Act, we are also responsible for expressing
our opinion on the internal financial controls
with reference to the consolidated financial
statements and the operating effectiveness of
such controls based on our audit.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of
accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by management and Board of Directors of
the Holding Company.

Conclude on the appropriateness of
management’s and Board of Director's of
the Holding Company use of the going
concern basis of accounting in preparation of
consolidated financial statements and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a
material uncertainty exists related to events
or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the appropriateness of this assumption.

If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in
our auditors’ report to the related disclosures
in the consolidated financial statements or,

if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on
the audit evidence obtained up to the date of
our auditors’ report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group (Holding
company and subsidiaries) to cease to continue
as a going concern.

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the
consolidated financial statements represent the

underlying transactions and events in a manner
that achieves fair presentation.

e = Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
regarding the financial information of such
entities within the Group to express an opinion
on the consolidated financial statements. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision
and performance of the audit of financial
information of the entities included in the
consolidated financial statements. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We believe that the audit evidence obtained by
us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial
statements.

We communicate with those charged with
governance of the Holding Company and such
other entities included in the consolidated financial
statements of which we are the independent
auditors regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with
a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to
communicate with them all relationships and other

Consolidated Financial Statements | 178
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on b)
our independence, and where applicable, related
safequards.

From the matters communicated with those charged
with governance, we determine those matters

that were of most significance in the audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the current c)
period and are therefore the key audit matters.

We describe these matters in our auditors’ report
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory d)
Requirements

A. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based
on our audit, we report, to the extent applicable, e)
that:

a) We have sought and obtained all the
information and explanations which to the
best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit
of the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

In our opinion, proper books of account
as required by law relating to preparation
of the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements have been kept so far as it
appears from our examination of those
books.

The consolidated balance sheet, the
consolidated statement of profit and loss
(including other comprehensive income),
the consolidated statement of changes in
equity and the consolidated statement of
cash flows dealt with by this Report are
in agreement with the relevant books of
account maintained for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial
statements.

In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated
financial statements comply with the Ind AS
specified under Section 133 of the Act.

On the basis of the written representations
received from the directors of the Holding
Company as on 31 March 2021 taken

on record by the Board of Directors of

the Holding Company and on the basis

of written representations received by

the management from directors of its
subsidiaries which are incorporated in

India, as on 31 March 2021, none of

the directors of the Group’s companies
incorporated in India is disqualified as on
31 March 2021 from being appointed as a
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the
Act.

With respect to the adequacy of the
internal financial controls with reference

to consolidated financial statements of

the Holding Company and its subsidiary
companies incorporated in India and the
operating effectiveness of such controls,
refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure A’.

With respect to the other matters to be
included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and
Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the
best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us:

The consolidated financial statements
disclose the impact of pending litigations
as at 31 March 2021 on the consolidated
financial position of the Group. Refer
Note 20 to the consolidated financial
statements.

The Group did not have any material
foreseeable losses on long-term contracts
including derivative contracts during the
year ended 31 March 2021.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 179
There has been no delay in transferring
amounts to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Holding Company
and its subsidiary companies incorporated
in India during the year ended 31 March
2021.

The disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements regarding holdings as well as
dealing in specified banks notes during

the period from 8 November 2016 to 30
December 2016 have not been made since
they do not pertain to the financial year
ended 31 March 2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

With respect to the matter to be included in the
Auditors’ report under Section 197(16) of the
Act:

In our opinion and according to the information
and explanation given to us, the remuneration
paid during the current year by the Holding
Company and its subsidiaries which are
incorporated in India to its directors is in
accordance with the provisions of Section

197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to

any director by the Holding Company and

its subsidiaries which are incorporated in

India, is not in excess of the limit laid down

under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry

of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other
details under Section 197(16) of the Act which
are required to be commented upon by us.

ForBSR&Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani

Partner
Bengaluru Membership No: 060154
12 April 2021 UDIN: 21060154AAAAAV1547

Consolidated Financial Statements | 180
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’
Report on the consolidated financial
statements of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2021

Report on the Internal Financial Controls with
reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)

(Referred to in paragraph A(f) under ‘Report on
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section
of our report of even date)

Opinion

In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated
financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding
Company’) as of and for the year ended 31 March
2021, we have audited the internal financial
controls with reference to the consolidated
financial statements of the Holding Company and
such companies incorporated in India under the
Companies Act, 2013 which are its subsidiary
companies, as of that date.

In our opinion, the Holding Company and such
companies incorporated in India which are its
subsidiary companies, have, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls with reference to

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

consolidated financial statements and such internal
financial controls were operating effectively as at
31 March 2021, based on the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements criteria established by such companies
considering the essential components of such
internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).

Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial
Controls

The respective company’s management and the
Board of Directors are responsible for establishing
and maintaining internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements
based on the criteria established by the respective
company considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These
responsibilities include the design, implementation
and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,
including adherence to the respective company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information,
as required under the Companies Act, 2013
(hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on

the internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing,
prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note
require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether adequate internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements were established and maintained and

if such controls operated effectively in all material
respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to

obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of

the internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements and their operating
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls
with reference to consolidated financial statements
included obtaining an understanding of internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of the internal
controls based on the assessed risk.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 181
The procedures selected depend on the auditor's
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinion on the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements.

Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements

A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of consolidated financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of

the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of consolidated
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial
Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also,

projections of any evaluation of the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk
that the internal financial controls with reference

to consolidated financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

ForBSR&Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani

Partner

Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 21060154AAAAAV1547

Bengaluru
12 April 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 182
Consolidated Balance Sheet

 

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Capital work-in-progress
Right-of-use assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Financial assets
Investments
Trade receivables
Unbilled receivables
Loans
Other financial assets
Income tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)
Other assets

Total non-current assets

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Note

10(d)

 

PE

(% crore)

PCE

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

11,110
926
7,633
1,798
480

213

55

273

29

1,573
1,845
3,931
1,613
"31,479

 

10,941
906
7,994
1,710
283

216
74
324
29
1,184
2462
2,828
1,711

30,662

 

 

Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Investments
Trade receivables
Unbilled receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Other balances with banks
Loans
Other financial assets
Income tax assets (net)
Other assets
Total current assets
TOTAL ASSETS
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
Other equity

Equity attributable to shareholders of the
Company

Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Note

&(\)
11

 

PE

(% crore)

PCE

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

29,160
30,079
6,583
6,858
2471
11,472
1,394
19
11,236
99,280
1,30,759

370
86,063
86,433

675
87,108

 

26,140
30,532
5,732
8.646
1,020
8475
1473
8
8,206

90,237
1,20,899

375
83,751

84,126

623

84,749

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 183

 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

 

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Unearned and deferred revenue
Employee benefit obligations
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Trade payables
Other financial liabilities
Unearned and deferred revenue
Other liabilities
Provisions
Employee benefit obligations
Income tax liabilities (net)
Total current liabilities
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Note

8(g)

14
17

8(g)

10(f)
10(g)
14

 

 

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
6,503 6,906
280 291
1,197 697
749 417
767 779
9,496 9,090
1,292 1,268
7,860 6.740
6,150 6,100
3,650 2.915
4,068 3,283
1,394 293
3.498 2,749
6.243 3,712
34,155 27,060
1,30,759 1,20,899

 

 

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board

For BS R& Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Amit Somani V Ramakrishnan
Partner CFO
Membership No: 060154

Rajendra Moholkar
Company Secretary

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021 Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 184
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss

 

(® crore} (® crore}
Note Year ended Year ended Note Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Revenue from operations 12 1,64,177 1,56,949 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Other income 13 eee eee Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
TOTAL INCOME 1,67,311 1,61,541 profit or loss
Expenses Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (82) (429)
Employee benefit expenses 14 91,814 85,952 Net change in fair values of investments in equity (2) (20)
Cost of equipment and software licences 15(a) 1,462 1,905 shares carried at fair value through OCI
Finance costs 16 637 924 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified 11 90
Depreciation and amortisation expense 4,065 3,529 subsequently to profit or loss
Other expenses 15(b) 24,355 26,983 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit
TOTAL EXPENSES 122,333 119,293 or loss
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX 44,978 42,248 Net change in fair values of investments other than 51 958

. . equity shares carried at fair value through OCI
Exceptional item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. . Net ch in intrinsic value of derivati 14 94
Provision towards legal claim 20 1,218 - e , change 1n Intrinsic valve OF derivates (94)
—__——_ —_—_. designated as cash flow hedges
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 43,760 42,248 i. .
Net change in time value of derivatives designated 53 (52)

Tax expense as cash flow hedges

Current tax v MMos Te Exchange differences on translation of financial 448 326

Deferred tax 17 (437} (577) statements of foreign operations
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 11,198 9,801
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 32,562 32,447

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 185
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss

 

Note

Income tax on items that will be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
Profit for the year attributable to:

Shareholders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (7) 18

Weighted average number of equity shares

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Year ended
(32)
461

33,023

32,430
132

32,562

32,914
109

33,023

86.71

374,01,10,733

 

(® crore}

Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

(315)

464
32,911

32,340
107

32,447

424
40
464

32,764
147

32,911

86.19

375,23,84,706

 

 

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached

For BS R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 186
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

 

A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(% crore)
Balance as at April 1, 2019 Changes in equity share capital during the year Balance as at March 31, 2020
375 375
(% crore)
Balance as at April 1, 2020 Changes in equity share capital during the year* Balance as at March 31, 2021
375 (5) 370
*Refer note &(I).
B. OTHER EQUITY
( crore)
Rese Se ev aE Mey acme a KUNST omia sela1S) ei) Non-
Capital Capital General Special Economic Retained Statutory Investment Cash flow hedging reserve Foreign currency attributable to controlling
crs aM eCeCT Led recA} PM Cane 3218 SN LOL eC  aaaCo)o T L0L translation shareholders of interests
esas investment reserve isso} ese the Compan’

Balance as at April 1, 2019 75 431 27 994 85,520 348 192 134 (30) 1,380 89,071 453| 89,524
Transition impact of Ind AS 116, net of tax - - - - (357) - - - - - (357) (2)| (359)
Restated balance as at April 1, 2019 75 431 27 994 85,163 348 192 134 (30) 1,380 88,714 451) 89,165
Profit for the year - - - - 32,340 - - - - - 32,340 107| 32,447
Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - - (339) - 604 (89) (38) 286 424 40 464
Total comprehensive income - - - - 32,001 - 604 (89} (38} 286 32,764 147| 32,911
Dividend (including tax on dividend of - - - -| (37,634) - - - - - (37,634) (68) | (37,702)
25,742 crore)
Impact on purchase of non-controlling - - - - (93) - - - - - (93) 93 -
interests
Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - - 2,947 (2,947) - - - - - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - - (2,347) 2,347 - - - - - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer to reserves - - - - (27) 27 - - - - - - -
Balance as at March 31, 2020 75 431 27 1,594 78,810 375 796 45 (68) 1,666 83,751 623| 84,374

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Consolidated Financial Statements | 187
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

 

 

 

 

( crore)
Roce Se ev tre Mey CUTS omiasela1 Sy ee) Non- aoe]
Capital Capital General Special Economic Retained Statutory Investment Cash flow hedging reserve Foreign currency attributable to controlling equity
crs MeCN Leda rersclA<y PTs Cane 3218 SN LOLA aaaCom)Co T L0L translation shareholders of interests
a investment reserve fosca Cea Peat cg
Balance as at April 1, 2020 75 431 27 1,594 78,810 375 796 45 (68) 1,666 83,751 623) 84,374
Profit for the year - - - - 32,430 - - - - - 32,430 132] 32,562
Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - - (71) - 32 11 41 471 484 (23) 461
Total comprehensive income - - - - 32,359 - 32 11 41 471 32,914 109) 33,023
Dividend 2 2 2 -| (10,850) 2 2 2 2 2 (10,850) (57)) (10,907)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares" - - - - (31) - - - - - (31) - (31)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares? - - - - (3,726) - - - - - (3,726) -| (3,726)
Buy-back of equity shares" - 5 - -| (16,000) - - - - - (15,995) -| (15,995)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - - 5,058 (5,058) - - - - - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - - (4,114) 4114 - - - - - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer to reserves - - - - (32) 32 - - - - - - -
Balance as at March 31, 2021 75 436 27 2,538 79,586 407 828 56 (27) 2,137 86,063 675] 86,738

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1Refer note &(I).

Total equity (primarily retained earnings) includes 71,366 crore and 71,258 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified

purposes.
Nature and purpose of reserves b. Capital redemption reserve
a. Capital reserve As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when
company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium.
The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of Asum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased Is transferred
the Group’s own equity instruments to capital reserve. to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the

provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 188
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

 

c

General reserve

The general reserve is a free reserve which is used from time to time to
transfer profits from / to retained earnings for appropriation purposes. As

the general reserve is created by a transfer from one component of equity to
another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items included in
the general reserve will not be reclassified subsequently to statement of profit
and loss.

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve

The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is created out of the
profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of section

1LOAA(1){ii) of the Income -tax Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the
Group for acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per the
terms of section LOAA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.

Retained earnings

This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Group as
on the balance sheet date.

Statutory reserve
Statutory reserves are created to adhere to requirements of applicable laws.
Investment revaluation reserve

This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on the
revaluation of equity and debt instruments on the balance sheet date
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The reserves
accumulated will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

h. Cash flow hedging reserve

The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative effective portion
of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of designated portion of
hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses
will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the
underlying hedged transaction occurs.

i. Foreign currency translation reserve

The exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements
of foreign operations with functional currency other than Indian Rupee is
recognised in other comprehensive income and is presented within equity in
the foreign currency translation reserve.

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board

For BS R & Co. LLP Rajesh Gopinathan =N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants CEO and COO and Executive Director
Firm's registration no: Managing Director

101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
Partner CFO Company Secretary
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021 Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 189
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year

Adjustments to reconcile profit and loss to net
cash provided by operating activities

Depreciation and amortisation expense

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for
doubtful trade receivables and advances (net)

Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 20)
Tax expense

Net gain on lease modification

Unrealised foreign exchange gain

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment

Net gain on investments

Interest income

Dividend income

Finance costs

Operating profit before working capital changes
Net change in

Inventories

Trade receivables

Unbilled receivables

Loans and other financial assets

Other assets

Trade payables

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Year ended

(% crore)
Bele cate(=re)

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

32,562

4.065
201

1,218
11,198
(100)
(21)
(13)

(204)
(2,504)
(8)
637

47,031

(3)
1,260
(201)

(17)
(2,805)
(93)

 

32,447

3,529
144

9,801
(14)
(117)
(46)

(214)
(3.562)
(10)
924

42,882

5
(3.295)
(508)
(2)
(3.492)
446

 

 

Unearned and deferred revenue

Other financial liabilities

Other liabilities and provisions

Cash generated from operations

Taxes paid (net of refunds}

Net cash generated from operating activities
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Bank deposits placed

Inter-corporate deposits placed

Purchase of investments*

Payment for purchase of property, plant and

equipment

Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-

use assets

Payment for purchase of intangible assets

Proceeds from bank deposits

Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits

Proceeds from disposal / redemption of
investments*

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment

Interest received

Dividend received

Net cash generated from / (used in) investing
activities

 

Year ended

(® crore)
Year ended

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

1,091
122

1,509
47,894
(9,092)
38,802

(6,605)
(21,076)
(54,462)

(2,719)

(101)

(356)
4.767
18,018
51,630

37

2,730
——_—_8
(8,129)

 

375
1,208
596
38,215
(5,846)
32,369

(7,663)
(14,905)

(80,002)
(2,538)

(519)
(192)
11,965

14,432
84,089

161

3.729

8,565

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 190

 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

 

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
Interest paid

Dividend paid (including tax on dividend in previous
year)

Dividend paid to non-controlling interests
{including tax on dividend in previous year)

Purchase of non-controlling interests
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(Refer note &(I))

Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note &(I))
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note &(I)}

Net cash used in financing activities

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
year

Exchange difference on translation of foreign
currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
(Refer note 8(c))

 

Year ended

(% crore)
Bele cate(=re)

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

(1,336)
(634)
(10,850)

(57)

(160)
160
(31)

(3.726)
(16,000)
(32,634)
(1,961)
8.646

173

6,858

 

(1062)
(924)
(37.634)

(68)

(227)

(39,915)

1,019
7,224

403

8,646

 

 

*Purchase of investments include 7172 crore and 7503 crore for the years ended

March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and proceeds from disposal / redemption of
investments include 7104 crore and %542 crore for the years ended March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached

For BS R& Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 191
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

1)

2)

3)

Corporate information

Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries
(collectively together with employee welfare trusts referred to as “the
Group”) provide IT services, consulting and business solutions and have been
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation
journeys. The Group offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated
portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This Is
delivered through its unique Location-Independent Agile delivery model
recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software development.

The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in
India. The address of its corporate office is TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort,
Mumbai 400001. As at March 31, 2021, Tata Sons Private Limited, the

holding company owned 72.16% of the Company's equity share capital.

The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements for the
year ended March 31, 2021 and authorised for issue on April 12, 2021.

Statement of compliance

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed
under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to time.

Basis of preparation

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on historical cost
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined benefit plans which
are measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration
given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities
have been classified as current and non-current as per the Group’s normal
operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and
time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash and
cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the Group
has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.

The statement of cash flows have been prepared under indirect method,
whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts

or payments and items of income or expense associated with investing or
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing
activities of the Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.

The functional currency of the Company and its Indian subsidiaries is the
Indian Rupee (®). The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at exchange rates prevailing

on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the
balance sheet date and exchange gains and losses arising on settlement and
restatement are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign
currencies are not retranslated.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 192
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

4)

The significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated
financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.

Basis of consolidation
The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled by it.

The Company establishes control when; it has power over the entity, is
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the
entity and has the ability to affect the entity’s returns by using its power over

a . 5
relevant activities of the entity. )

Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated from the date control
commences until the date control ceases.

The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, during the year are consolidated
from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal,
as appropriate.

All inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated
in full on consolidation.

Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss
of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amount of
the Company’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to
reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference
between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and
the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in
equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.

Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency other than the
functional currency of the Company have been translated using exchange

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss of
such entities has been translated using weighted average exchange rates.
Translation adjustments have been reported as foreign currency translation
reserve in the statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation is
disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or
joint control is lost, the cumulative amount of exchange differences related to
that foreign operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of profit
and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.

Use of estimates and judgements

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with the
recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS requires management
to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported balances of
assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent liabilities as at the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of income and
expenses for the periods presented.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the
estimates are revised and future periods are affected.

The Group uses the following critical accounting estimates in preparation of its
consolidated financial statements:

a. Revenue recognition

Revenue for fixed-price contracts Is recognised using percentage-of-
completion method. The Group uses judgement to estimate the future
cost-to-completion of the contracts which is used to determine the
degree of completion of the performance obligation.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 193
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

b.

Useful lives of property, plant and equipment

The Group reviews the useful life of property, plant and equipment at the
end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in
depreciation expense in future periods.

Impairment of goodwill

The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash generating units
(CGUs) based on the future cash flows after considering current
economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating results and
growth rate and anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions.
The estimated cash flows are developed using internal forecasts. The
discount rates used for the CGUs represent the weighted average cost of
capital based on the historical market returns of comparable companies.

Fair value measurement of financial instruments

When the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in
the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including
the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are taken
from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements
include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and
volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the
reported fair value of financial instruments.

Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets

The Group uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings
in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

which is exercised while determining the provision for income tax. A
deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that
future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences and tax losses can be utilised. Accordingly, the
Group exercises its judgement to reassess the carrying amount of
deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period.

Provisions and contingent liabilities

The Group estimates the provisions that have present obligations as a
result of past events and it is probable that outflow of resources will be
required to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the
end of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best
estimates.

The Group uses significant judgement to disclose contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed when there Is a possible obligation
arising from past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future
events not wholly within the control of the Group or a present obligation
that arises from past events where it is either not probable that an
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable
estimate of the amount cannot be made. Contingent assets are neither
recognised nor disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.

Employee benefits

The accounting of employee benefit plans in the nature of defined benefit
requires the Group to use assumptions. These assumptions have been
explained under employee benefits note.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 194
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

h.

Leases

The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the
requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease requires significant
judgement. The Group uses significant Judgement in assessing the lease
term (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.

The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period

of alease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend
the lease if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Group is
reasonably certain not to exercise that option. In assessing whether the
Group is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or
not to exercise an option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant
facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the Group
to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option
to terminate the lease. The Group revises the lease term if there is a
change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.

The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate
specific to the lease being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with
similar characteristics.

Impact of COVID-19 (pandemic)

The Group has taken into account all the possible impacts of COVID-19
in preparation of these consolidated financial statements, including but
not limited to its assessment of, liquidity and going concern assumption,
recoverable values of its financial and non-financial assets, impact on
revenue recognition owing to changes in cost budgets of fixed price
contracts, impact on leases and impact on effectiveness of its hedges.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

6)

The Group has carried out this assessment based on available internal
and external sources of information upto the date of approval of these
consolidated financial statements and believes that the impact of
COVID-19 is not material to these consolidated financial statements
and expects to recover the carrying amount of its assets. The impact
of COVID-19 on the consolidated financial statements may differ from
that estimated as at the date of approval of these consolidated financial
statements owing to the nature and duration of COVID-19.

Recent pronouncements

On March 24, 2021, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) through

a notification, amended Schedule Ill of the Companies Act, 2013. The
amendments revise Division |, Il and Ill of Schedule Ill and are applicable

from April 1, 2021. Key amendments relating to Division Il which relate to
companies whose financial statements are required to comply with Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 are:

Balance Sheet:

e Lease liabilities should be separately disclosed under the head ‘financial
liabilities’, duly distinguished as current or non-current.

e = Certain additional disclosures in the statement of changes in equity such
as changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors and restated
balances at the beginning of the current reporting period.

e@ = Specified format for disclosure of shareholding of promoters.

e = Specified format for ageing schedule of trade receivables, trade payables,
capital work-in-progress and intangible asset under development.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 195
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

7)

e — Ifa company has not used funds for the specific purpose for which it was
borrowed from banks and financial institutions, then disclosure of details
of where it has been used.

e = Specific disclosure under ‘additional regulatory requirement’ such as
compliance with approved schemes of arrangements, compliance with
number of layers of companies, title deeds of immovable property not
held in name of company, loans and advances to promoters, directors,
key managerial personnel (KMP) and related parties, details of benami
property held etc.

Statement of profit and loss:

e = Additional disclosures relating to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),
undisclosed income and crypto or virtual currency specified under the
head ‘additional information’ in the notes forming part of consolidated 8)
financial statements.

The amendments are extensive and the Group will evaluate the same to give
effect to them as required by law.

Business combinations

The Group accounts for its business combinations under acquisition method
of accounting. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the consolidated
statement of profit and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are
recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.

Purchase consideration paid in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired is
recognised as goodwill. Where the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities
exceed the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values of the net
assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is recognised as capital reserve.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured either at

fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made

on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying
amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial
recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in
equity of subsidiaries.

Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in entities that
are under common control are accounted at historical cost. The difference
between any consideration given and the aggregate historical carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in
shareholders’ equity.

   

Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and
liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value measured on initial
recognition of financial asset or financial liability.

The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to
the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset
and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the
Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 196
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Cash and cash equivalents

The Group considers all highly liquid financial instruments, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk
of change in value and having original maturities of three months or less from
the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist
of balances with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.

Financial assets at amortised cost

Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost if these
financial assets are held within a business whose objective Is to hold these
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms
of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income

Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective Is
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
and selling financial assets.

The Group has made an irrevocable election to present subsequent
changes in the fair value of equity investments not held for trading in other
comprehensive income.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

income on initial recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable to the
acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.

Equity instruments

An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual interest in the assets
of the company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued
by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.

Derivative accounting
e Instruments in hedging relationship

The Group designates certain foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign
exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

The Group uses hedging instruments that are governed by the policies of
the Company and its subsidiaries which are approved by their respective
Board of Directors. The policies provide written principles on the use of
such financial derivatives consistent with the risk management strategy of
the Company and its subsidiaries.

The hedge instruments are designated and documented as hedges at
the inception of the contract. The Group determines the existence of an
economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item

Consolidated Financial Statements | 197
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the risk associated
with the exposure being hedged is assessed and measured at inception
and on an ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer
expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in
other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in
the statement of profit and loss.

The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated
hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.

The Group separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option and
designates as hedging instruments only the change in intrinsic value of
the option. The change in fair value of the time value and intrinsic value
of an option is recognised in other comprehensive income and accounted
as a separate component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified into
the statement of profit and loss when the related hedged items affect
statement of profit and loss.

Hedge accounting Is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires
or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated
in equity till that time remains and is recognised in statement of profit and
loss when the forecasted transaction ultimately affects the profit and loss.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and
loss when the hedge becomes ineffective.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

e Instruments not in hedging relationship

The Group enters into the contracts that are effective as hedges from an
economic perspective, but they do not qualify for hedge accounting. The
change in the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss.

Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)

The Group assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial asset

or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 requires expected credit
losses to be measured through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime
expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables that do not
constitute a financing transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful
trade receivables, the Group has used a practical expedient by computing

the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision
matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience
and is adjusted for forward looking information. The expected credit loss
allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance
rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected
credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month expected
credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if
the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 198
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

{a) Investments

Investments consist of the following:
Investments — Non-current

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Investments designated at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted}

Mozido LLC

FCM LLC

Taj Air Limited

Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation

Less: Impairment in value of investments
Investments carried at amortised cost
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Investments — Non-current includes 7175 crore and 7174 crore as at March 31, 2021
and 2020, respectively, pertains to trusts held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Investments — Current

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Investments carried at fair value through
profit or loss

Mutual fund units (quoted)

Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Investments carried at amortised cost
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Commercial papers (quoted)

 

Investments — Current includes 7166 crore and 795 crore as at March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility
amounting to 71,650 crore and NIL as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(% crore)
CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Aggregate value of quoted investments

Aggregate value of unquoted investments
(net of impairment)

Aggregate market value of quoted investments
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 199
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost Is as follows:

Government bonds and securities

Corporate

Commercial papers

bonds

PE

10
136

(% crore)
PCE

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
186

186
36

 

Equity instruments carried at fair value through OCI are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

In Numbers|Currency| Face Equity instruments
value per| carried at fair value
share through OCI

Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)

1,00,00,000) USD 1)Mozido LLC

15) USD | 5,00,000)FCM LLC
1,90,00,000) INR 10) Taj Air Limited
5,00,000) PHP 100|Philippine Dealing System

Holdings Corporation
Less: Impairment in value
of investments

Er

March 31, 2021

73
55
19

(116)

38

(% crore)

Era
March 31, 2020

 

(114)

42

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value

through OC1 is as follows:

Balance at the beginning of the year

Net loss arising on revaluation of financial
assets carried at fair value

Net gain arising on revaluation of investments
other than equities carried at fair value through
other comprehensive income

Deferred tax relating to net gain arising
on revaluation of investments other than
equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income

Net cumulative gain reclassified to statement
of profit and loss on sale of investments other
than equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income

Deferred tax relating to net cumulative gain
reclassified to statement of profit and loss on
sale of investments other than equities carried
at fair value through other comprehensive
income

Balance at the end of the year

 

Berle erarelaxe|

(% crore)

Breer arelaxe|

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

796
(2)

51

(17)

828

 

192
(20)

972

(340)

(14)

796

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 200

 
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

{b) Trade receivables (c) Cash and cash equivalents
Trade receivables (unsecured) consist of the following: Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
Trade receivables — Non-current

(% crore)

(% crore) ord ea
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

PE PCE
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020 Balances with banks

Trade receivables 787 656 In current accounts
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables (732) (582) In deposit accounts

i
Considered good 55 74 Cheques on hand
—_ _—_ Cash on hand

Remittances in transit

 

Trade receivables — Current

 

(% crore)
ra a *Represents value less than 70.50 crore.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balances with banks in current accounts include 713 crore and %4 crore as at March 31,
. 2021 and 2020, respectively, pertaining to trusts held for specified purposes.
Trade receivables 30,248 30,747
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables (244) (306) {d) Other balances with banks
Considered good 30,004 30,441 Other balances with banks consist of the following:

Trade receivables 388 340 (® crore)
PE PCE

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables (313) (249) VEEL eT en Reentry.

Credit impaired 75 gu Earmarked balances with banks

30,079 30,532 Short-term bank deposits

  

Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of
investments, margin money for derivative contracts and unclaimed dividends.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 201
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

{e) Loans

Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
Loans — Non-current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits 27

Loans and advances to employees 2

Loans — Current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits

Loans and advances to employees
Credit impaired

Loans and advances to employees

Less: Allowance on loans and advances to
employees

Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate. Inter-

corporate deposits include 7952 crore and 7922 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,

respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

{f) Other financial assets

Other financial assets consist of the following:
Other financial assets — Non-current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Security deposits

Earmarked balances with banks
Long-term bank deposits
Others

 

Other financial assets — Current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Security deposits

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets
Interest receivable

Others

 

Interest receivable includes %40 crore and %43 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,
respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 202
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

(g) Other financial liabilities

Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Other financial liabilities - Non-current

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Capital creditors = 3
Others 280

280

Others include advance taxes paid of 7226 crore and %226 crore as at March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the
Company) which, on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.

Other financial liabilities - Current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Accrued payroll

Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
liabilities

Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts
Others

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

(h) Financial instruments by category

The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021
is as follows:
(% crore)

ml Derivative Derivative Amortised
through other instruments instruments cost

eT NESTS MN AM aT. Ne) not in

 

 

 

 

income dete saP macele ae)
rien
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents - - - - 6,858| 6858
Bank deposits - - - - 2,981) 2,981
Earmarked balances with banks > > > > 212 212
Investments 4,904 24,158 o o 311) 29,373
Trade receivables - - - - 30,134] 30,134
Unbilled receivables - - - - 6,856) 6,856
Loans o o o -| 11,501} 11,501
Other financial assets - - 163 332 1,750) 2.245
4,904 24,158 163 332} 60,603) 90,160
Financial liabilities
Trade payables - - - - 7,860| 7,860
Lease liabilities - - - - 7,795| 7,795
Other financial liabilities - - 2 90 6,338) 6,430
- - 2 90) 21,993] 22,085

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of 711,256 crore, with original maturity period
within 36 months.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 203
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

 

The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2020 Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled receivables,
is as follows: loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, approximate the fair value.
Difference between carrying amounts and fair values of bank deposits, earmarked
( crore) . : ranma
. . a a . balances with banks, other financial assets and other financial liabilities subsequently
Fair aS ; PN ; Ch uh Le measured at amortised cost is not significant in each of the years presented. Fair
aaa other es aeTNCHALS SETAE OSS | EUAN value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried
a Woe UM a cae at amortised cost is 332 crore and %222 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,
profit income aclu salp) WCE) respectively.
Calle ae loelp)
Financial assets (i) Fair value hierarchy
Cash and cash equivalents - - - - 8646) 8646
Bank deposits - - - - 1,153] 1,153 The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are
Earmarked balances with banks - - - - 216 216 used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and
Investments 1,692 24,464 _ _ 200] 26,356 consists of the following three levels:
Trade recelvables - - - ieee ec e Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
Unbilled receivables - - - es ces identical assets or liabilities.
Loans - - - - 8504) 8504
Other financial assets - - 146 279 1,883] 2,308 e Level 2 — Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1
1,692 24,464 146 279| 57,264) 83,845 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie. as prices)
Financial liabilities or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Trade payables - - - - 6,740| 6,740
P vet . e Level 3 — Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable
Lease liabilities - - - - 8174) 8174 : : : : : . :
a inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part using a valuation
Other financial liabilities - - 34 659 5,698} 6391 - - .
model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from
S S 34 659} 20,612) 21,305

observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are
they based on available market data.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of 78,198 crore, with original maturity period

ithin 36 ths. . . . . .
waenin 2 menens The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy

approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value
measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 204
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair (% crore)
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair
: : : : : . As at March 31, 2020 | eWv7=1 0 aN r=) 4 Level 3 Total
value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
Financial assets
(% crore)
As at March 31, 2021 Levell Level2 Level3 Total Mutual fund units BS - "| 2892
Financial assets Equity shares - - ae ae
Mutual fund units 4.849 _ 55 4.904 Government bonds and securities 24,476 = = 24,476
Equity shares _ _ 38 38 Corporate bonds 168 = = 168
Government bonds and securities 23,856 = = 23,856 Far value of foreign exchange derivative - Gas - Gas
Cc te bond: 460 = = 460
onporessens 26,336 425 42 | 26,803
Commercial papers ee - - 136 Financial liabilities
Fair val F forei h derivati 2 495 2 495 . . oo.
An VINE OF TOPEIGN EXCNANGE CETNBENVE Fair value of foreign exchange derivative = 693 = 693
assets ae
liabilities
29,301 495 93 29,889 . 693 . 693
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative - 92 - 92 Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as
liabilities follows:
5 92 5 92 (% crore)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year
Additions during the year

Fair value of investments

Impairment in value of investments
Translation exchange difference
Balance at the end of the year

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 205
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

0)

Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial liabilities is as
follows:
(% crore)

Year ended Bela erarelaxe|

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year
Repayment during the year
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity

The Group’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the
nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in Indian
Rupee. This exposes the Group to currency fluctuations.

The Board of Directors have constituted a Risk Management Committee
(RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan of the
Group which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations. Under the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the
Group uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward,
currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally
a bank.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been
designated as cash flow hedges:

As at March 31, 2021

As at March 31, 2020

 

Foreign No.of  Notionalamount Fairvalue No.of Notionalamount Fair value
currency elated of contracts (%crore) contracts of contracts Kmart)
(In million) (In million)

US Dollar 63 1,615 51 55 1,420 20
Great Britain 64 330 14 71 384 59
Pound

Euro 60 346 78 38 363 (31)
Australian Dollar 38 206 16 26 192 48
Canadian Dollar 23 114 2 19 104 16

 

The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash
flow hedges is as follows:

( crore)
Br Tmerarel=]

   

Year ended

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Intrinsic aii Intrinsic attic
value value value value

Balance at the beginning of the year
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on (341) 530 (449) 513
occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions
Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to profit and 73 (125) 54 (38)
loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions
Change in the fair value of effective portion of cash 355 (477) 355 (565)
flow hedges
Deferred tax on fair value of effective portion of cash (76) 113 (49) 52
flow hedges
Balance at the end of the year 56 (27) 45 (68)

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 206
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The Group has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship
by way of foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts.
As at March 31, 2021 and 2020, the notional amount of outstanding
contracts aggregated to %37,615 crore and %40,298 crore, respectively and
the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of 7242 crore and
net loss of 7380 crore.

Exchange gain of 490 crore and loss of 7461 crore on foreign exchange
forward, currency options and futures contracts that do not qualify for hedge
accounting have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and
loss for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Net foreign exchange gains include loss of 7189 crore and %64 crore
transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively.

Net gain on derivative instruments of 730 crore recognised in cash flow
hedging reserve as at March 31, 2021, is expected to be transferred to

the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2022. The maximum period
over which the exposure to cash flow variability has been hedged is through
calendar year 2021.

Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on Group’s other
comprehensive income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the
underlying foreign currencies:

(% crore)
CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign (306) (407)
currencies
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign 1,906 1,261
currencies

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

(k) Financial risk management

The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely impact

the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management
policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities.

The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus
of the risk management committee Is to assess the unpredictability of the
financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial
performance of the Group.

Market risk

Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market
changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of
foreign currency exchange rate risk.

e = Foreign currency exchange rate risk

The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential
impact on the consolidated statement of profit and loss and other
comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references
more than one currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in

a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities.
Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Group
operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in
exchange rates in those countries.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 207
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

The Group, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments
primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any movement in the
functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against
major foreign currencies may impact the Group’s revenue in international
business.

The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations
by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of
these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk
management policies.

The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the
net foreign exchange rate exposure and a simultaneous parallel foreign
exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective
functional currencies of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its
subsidiaries.

The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures
for each of the subsidiaries and Tata Consultancy Services Limited as of
the date of balance sheet which could affect the statement of profit and
loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure
as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts
entered into by the Group as disclosed in note &(j).

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2021:

(% crore)

 

Net financial assets 3,194 155 101 1,129
Net financial liabilities (41) (573) (354) (411)

 

10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata
Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries with respect to various foreign
currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group's profit before taxes by
approximately 7320 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021.

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2020:

 

(% crore)

Others
Net financial assets 2,140 239 82 1,145
Net financial liabilities (3.257) (325) (160) (249)

 

10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata
Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries with respect to various foreign
currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group's profit before taxes by
approximately 739 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 208
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

e = Interest rate risk

The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing
investments. Hence, the Group ts not significantly exposed to interest
rate risk.

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay
or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk
encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration

of creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled
by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals
for credit.

Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk
principally consist of trade receivables, unbilled receivables, loans, investments,
derivative financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and
other financial assets. Inter-corporate deposits of 11,256 crore are with

a financial institution having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating
agencies. Bank deposits include an amount of %2,669 crore held with two
Indian banks having high credit rating which are individually in excess of 10%
or more of the Group’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2021. None of the
other financial instruments of the Group result in material concentration of
credit risk.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Exposure to credit risk

The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents
the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk
was %94,201 crore and 788,291 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,
respectively, being the total of the carrying amount of balances with
banks, bank deposits, investments, trade receivables, unbilled receivables,
loan, contract assets and other financial assets.

The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer
contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivables, unbilled
receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2021 and 2020.

Geographic concentration of credit risk

Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of
allowances), unbilled receivables and contract assets is as follows:

As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2020

 

Gross% Not Gross% Not
United States of America 41.08 41.83 44.94 45.66
India 20.31 18.79 11.56 10.01
United Kingdom 16.37 16.75 14.74 15.02

 

Geographical concentration of trade receivables, unbilled receivables and contract
assets is allocated based on the location of the customers.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 209
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for
the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was 7190 crore and

%133 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful
trade receivables is as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Bele cate(=re)
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year
Change during the year

Bad debts written off

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial
obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management Is to maintain
sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per
requirements. The Group consistently generated sufficient cash flows
from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities
as and when they fall due.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of
significant financial liabilities as at:

 

 

 

 

 

 

(% crore)
March 31, 2021 DIUM ay piv ewa) Duein 3% Due after Total
hale 2“year toS5™year 5" year

Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade payables 7,860 - - - 7,860
Lease liabilities 1,742 1,601 3,325 3,509 10,177
Other financial liabilities 6,058 50 230 - 6,338

15,660 1,651 3,555 3,509 24,375
Derivative financial 92 S S S 92
liabilities

15,752 1,651 3,555 3,509 24,467

(% crore)
March 31, 2020 DIUM ay Due in Duein3% Due after Total
has 2"year toSyear 5" year

Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade payables 6,740 - - - 6,740
Lease liabilities 1,722 1,514 3,517 4,034 10,787
Other financial liabilities 5,407 12 279 - 5,698

13,869 1,526 3,796 4,034 23,225
Derivative financial 693 = = = 693
liabilities

14,562 1,526 3,796 4,034 23,918

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 210
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

(I) Equity instruments

The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital consist of
the following:

(% crore)
CE \d PAA
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Authorised
460,05,00,000 equity shares of 71 each 460 460
(March 31, 2020: 460,05,00,000 equity shares
of 21 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of %1 each 105 105

(March 31, 2020: 105,02,50,000 preference
shares of 71 each)

565 565
Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
369,90,51,373 equity shares of 71 each 370 375
(March 31, 2020: 375,23,84,706 equity shares
of 21 each)

370 375

 

 

 

 

The Company's objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder
value, safequard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating
plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The funding
requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 7, 2020, approved a
proposal to buy-back upto 5,33,33,333 equity shares of the Company for
an aggregate amount not exceeding 716,000 crore, being 1.42% of the total
paid up equity share capital at 73,000 per equity share. The shareholders
approved the same on November 18, 2020, by way of a special resolution
through postal ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders.
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares out of the shares that
were tendered by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares
on January 6, 2021. Capital redemption reserve was created to the extent of
share capital extinguished (%5 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of
%16,031 crore (including $31 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back)
over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of %3,726 crore
were offset from retained earnings.

Il. Reconciliation of number of shares

As at March 31, 2021

Eee ee eae)

 

 

Number of Peg Names Pov g
eles K@arer) els (% crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance 375,23,84,706 375 | 375,23,84,706 375
Shares extinguished on (5,33,33,333) (5) - -
buy-back
Closing balance 369,90,51,373 370 | 375,23,84,706 375

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 211
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares

The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of %1
each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held and carry
a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors

is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual
General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of
liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining
assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in
proportion to their shareholding.

Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Equity shares

Holding company

266,91,25,829 equity shares (March 31,
2020: 270,24,50,947 equity shares) are
held by Tata Sons Private Limited
Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding
company

7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2020:
7,220 equity shares) are held by Tata
Industries Limited*

10,23.685 equity shares (March 31, 2020:
10,36,269 equity shares) are held by Tata
Investment Corporation Limited*

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

46.798 equity shares (March 31, 2020:
46.798 equity shares) are held by

Tata Steel Limited*

766 equity shares (March 31, 2020 : 766
equity shares) are held by The Tata Power
Company Limited*

 

*Equity shares having value less than 70.50 crore.

Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the
aggregate shares in the Company
(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the Holding
company

266,91,25,829

270,24,50,947

 

% of shareholding 72.16% 72.02%
Equity shares movement during 5 years preceding March 31, 2021
e = Equity shares issued as bonus

The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up
bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained

Consolidated Financial Statements | 212
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

9)

earnings amounting to %86 crore and capital redemption reserve
amounting to %106 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2018,
pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of
shareholders through postal ballot.

e = Equity shares extinguished on buy-back

The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 1.42% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 73,000 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on January 6, 2021.

The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 72,100 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on September 26, 2018.

The Company bought back 5,61,40,350 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 2.85% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 72,850 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on June 7, 2017.

Leases
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to

control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Group as a lessee

The Group accounts for each lease component within the contract as a
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates
the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of
the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate
standalone price of the non-lease components.

The Group recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the
underlying asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. The

cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be
incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or
restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use
assets is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation,
accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement

of the lease liability. The right-of-use assets is depreciated using the straight-
line method from the commencement date over the shorter of lease term

or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-

use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and
equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever there is
any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment
loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 213
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease
payments that are not paid at the commencement date of the lease. The lease
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that
rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the
Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar
characteristics, the Group, on a lease by lease basis, may adopt either the
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing
rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed
payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price
of a purchase option where the Group Is reasonably certain to exercise that
option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term
reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease. The lease
liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed
lease payments. The Group recognises the amount of the re-measurement of
lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset
and statement of profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification.
Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and
there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the
Group recognises any remaining amount of the re-measurement in statement
of profit and loss.

The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases
to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments
associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Group as a lessor

At the inception of the lease the Group classifies each of its leases as either
an operating lease or a finance lease. The Group recognises lease payments
received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the
lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised over the
lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on
the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate
lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference
to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to
the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short term lease to which the Group
applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an
operating lease.

If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group
applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the
consideration in the contract.

The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:

 

 

(% crore)

Additions for year Niele lale mare e aa

ended March 31,2021 as at March 31, 2021
Leasehold land = 682
Buildings 1.226 6,758
Leasehold improvements 6 26
Computer equipment 102 101
Software licences 26 25
Vehicles 30 32
Office equipment 1 9
1,391 7,633

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 214
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

(% crore) The total cash outflow for leases is 72,312 crore and %2,465 crore for years
PXelcTid eMC Net carrying amount ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, including cash outflow for
ended March 31, 2020 _ as at March 31, 2020 short term and low value leases.
Leasehold land
Buildings 2,443 7.218 The Group has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the
Leasehold improvements 15 46 measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for
Computer equipment 7 13

such extension periods is 708 crore and %457 crore as at March 31, 2021

 

 

 

Vehicles — 5 nS and 2020, respectively.
Office equipment 7 11
esor bee Lease contracts entered by the Group majorly pertains for buildings taken
on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Group does not
Depreciation on right-of -use assets Is as follows: have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the
(% crore) contract.

Year ended Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020 10) Non-financial assets and liabilities
Leasehold land
Buildings (a) Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold improvements
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase
price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its
working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation

(other than freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.

Computer equipment
Software licences
Vehicles

Office equipment

 

Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a
straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value over their
estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated
useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for ona
prospective basis.

Interest on lease liabilities is 7523 crore and %492 crore for the years ended
on March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The Group incurred %352 crore and %392 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-
term leases and leases of low-value assets.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 215
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:

 

aoe OKs ery

Buildings 20 years

Leasehold improvements Lease term

Plant and equipment 10 years

Computer equipment 4 years

Vehicles A years

Office equipment 5 years

Electrical installations 4-10 years

Furniture and fixtures 5 years

 

Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until
construction and installation are complete and the asset Is ready for its
intended use.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for
recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the
value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset
does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the
cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 216
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

Cost as at April 1, 2020

Additions

Disposals

Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2021

Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2020
Depreciation

Disposals

Translation exchange difference

Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2021
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021
Capital work-in-progress*

Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(% crore)
Freehold Buildings Leasehold Earle] Computer Vehicles Office Electrical Furniture
land improvements equipment equipment Cel iatot te El Claes}
347 7,719 2,427 681 8,794 42 2,509 2,039 1,886 | 26,444
5 71 142 53 2.047 3 137 46 61 2.565
= (11) (72) (1) (180) (5) (80) (29) (63) (441)
(1) (2) 5 4 73 - 8 2 1 90
351 7,777 2,502 737 10,734 40 2,574 2,058 1,885 | 28,658
-| (2,563) (1,441) (228) (6,414) (34) (2,068) (1,266) (1,489) | (15,503)
= (393) (199) (72) (1,246) (4) (204) (152) (137) (2,407)
= 8 68 1 168 5 79 26 62 417
- 1 (3) (3) (39) - (6) (1) (4) (55)
-| (2,947) (1,575) (302) (7,531) (33) (2,199) (1,393) (1,568) | (17,548)
351 4,830 927 435 3,203 7 375 665 317 11,110
926
12,036

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*%2,565 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Consolidated Financial Statements | 217
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Cost as at April 1, 2019

Transition impact of Ind AS 116

Restated cost as at April 1, 2019

Additions

Disposals

Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2020

Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2019
Transition impact of Ind AS 116

Restated accumulated depreciation as at
April 1, 2019

Depreciation

Disposals

Translation exchange difference

Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2020
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020
Capital work-in-progress*

Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(% crore)
Freehold Buildings Leasehold Plant and Computer Vehicles Office Electrical aUlgalidel acy Total
ETare) Teal ney Celt nctn eM xe 01) aT otn a equipment Cell) aaron ae El Cela Ol pos}
345 7,429 2,403 552 7,687 39 2,377 1,935 1,755) 24,522
= = (106) = (130) = (5) = (2) (243)
345 7,429 2,297 552 7,557 39 2,372 1,935 1,753 | 24,279
= 290 302 134 1.620 5 223 119 165 2,858
= (7) (185) = (379) (2) (90) (19) (51) (733)
2 7 13 (5) (4) s 4 4 19 40
347 7,719 2,427 681 8,794 42 2,509 2,039 1,886 | 26,444
-| (2,187) (1,396) (172) (5,906) (31) (1,921) (1,132) (1,366) | (14,111)
= = 60 = 129 = 4 = 1 194
-| (2,187) (1,336) (172) (5,777) (31) (1,917) (1,132) (1,365) | (13,917)
= (379) (191) (60) (998) (5) (232) (147) (160) (2.172)
= 6 99 = 357 2 85 18 51 618
- (3) (13) 4 4 - (4) (5) (15) (32)
-| (2,563) (1,441) (228) (6,414) (34) (2,068) (1,266) (1,489) | (15,503)
347 5,156 986 453 2,380 8 441 773 397 | 10,941
906
11,847

 

 

*%2,858 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2020.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Consolidated Financial Statements | 218
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

{b) Goodwill

Goodwill represents the cost of acquired business as established at the
date of acquisition of the business in excess of the acquirer’s interest

in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Goodwill is tested for
impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that the
implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount.

CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment
annually, or more frequently when there is indication for impairment.
The financial projections basis which the future cash flows have been
estimated consider the increase in economic uncertainties due to
COVID-19, reassessment of the discount rates, revisiting the growth
rates factored while arriving at terminal value and subjecting these
variables to sensitivity analysis. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less
than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the
other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of
each asset in the unit.

Goodwill consists of the following:

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year
Translation exchange difference
Balance at the end of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

(c)

Goodwill of 660 crore and 636 crore as at March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively, has been allocated to the TCS business in France.
The estimated value-in-use of this CGU is based on the future cash
flows using a 1.50% annual growth rate for periods subsequent to the
forecast period of 5 years and discount rate of 9.30%. An analysis of the
sensitivity of the computation to a change in key parameters (operating
margin, discount rates and long term average growth rate), based on
reasonable assumptions, did not identify any probable scenario in which
the recoverable amount of the CGU would decrease below its carrying
amount.

The remaining amount of goodwill of 71,138 crore and %1,074 crore

as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (relating to different
CGUs individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow
forecasts of the related CGUs and the recoverable amounts of these
CGUs exceeded their carrying amounts.

Other intangible assets

Intangible assets purchased including acquired in business combination,
are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.

Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software
licences and customer-related intangibles.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 219
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated
useful lives:

 

aon OTB ery

Rights under licensing agreement and | Lower of licence period and 2-5 years
software licences

Customer-related intangibles 3 years

 

Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of
its economic useful life.

Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not
be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
(ie. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is
determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not
generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash
generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Intangible assets consist of the following:

 

Rights under

licensing agreement

and software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2020 448
Additions 356
Disposals / Derecognised (64)
Translation exchange difference =
Cost as at March 31, 2021 740
Accumulated amortisation as at (180)
April 1, 2020
Amortisation (149)
Disposals / Derecognised 64

Translation exchange difference =

Accumulated amortisation as at (265)

March 31, 2021

Net carrying amount as at 475

March 31, 2021

 

 

Customer -

rsa 1asa)
intangibles

122
(105)

(9)

(3)
(117)

 

(% crore)

568
356
(64)

 

862
(285)

 

(158)
64

 

(382)

 

480

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 220

 
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Cost as at April 1, 2019
Additions

Translation exchange difference
Cost as at March 31, 2020
Accumulated amortisation as at
April 1, 2019

Amortisation

Translation exchange difference

Accumulated amortisation as at
March 31, 2020

Net carrying amount as at
March 31, 2020

Rights under

licensing agreement
and software licences intangibles

 

 

(102)

(180)

 

Customer-
related

 

(% crore)

 

 

 

(285)

 

283

 

 

 

The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2021

is as follows:

Year ending March 31,
2022

2023

2024

2025

Thereafter

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(% crore)
Pied aier ela R=ds XSuL ES)

 

{d) Other assets

Other assets consist of the following:
Other assets — Non-current

Considered good
Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
Contract fulfillment costs
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Others

Advances to related parties, considered good,
comprise:

Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd*
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited*

 

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
250 197
621 839
228 286
66 55
33 36
415 298
1,613 1,711
2 3
30 33

 

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 221
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Other assets — Current {e) Inventories

(% crore) Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components,
a ao b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
prareeli iit, NOH | (Mletreln Si, aoe) Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of

 

considered good ee A2ep raw materials, sub-assemblies and components is determined on a weighted
Prepaid expenses 4651 1.498 average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Group
Prepaid rent , 28 , 15 includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing
Contract fulfillment costs 796 621 overheads.
Advance to suppliers 157 136 . . .
Advance to related parties 10 11 Inventories consist of the following:
Indirect taxes recoverable 1,491 1,374 (% crore)
Others 273 259
Considered doubtful Sat AS ai
Advance to suppliers 3 3 March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Indirect taxes recoverable = 2 Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components
Other advances 1 3 a :

Finished goods and work-in-progress *
Less: Allowance on doubtful assets (4 (8 g prog

11,236 8,206 Goods-in-transit (raw materials)

Advance to related parties, considered good Stores and spares*
comprise:
The Titan Company Limited 2 3
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited 1 a
Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited = 1 *Represents value less than %0.50 crore.
Tata Sons Private Limited 7 7

 

 

 

 

Non-current — Others includes advance of 7369 crore and %271 crore towards
acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Contract fulfillment costs of 7568 crore and 7510 crore for the years ended March 31,

2021 and 2020, respectively, have been amortised in the consolidated statement of
profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in contract assets.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 222
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

(f)

(g)

Other liabilities
Other liabilities consist of the following:
Other liabilities - Current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021

March 31, 2020
Advance received from customers
Indirect taxes payable and other statutory
liabilities

Operating lease liabilities

Others

Provisions
Provisions consist of the following:
Provisions — Current

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 20) -

Provision for foreseeable loss 238

Other provisions ENE

293

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

11) Other equity
Other equity consist of the following:

Capital reserve

Capital redemption reserve
Opening balance
Transfer from retained earnings

General reserve
Opening balance
Transfer to retained earnings

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
Opening balance
Transfer from retained earnings
Transfer to retained earnings

Retained earnings
Opening balance
Transition impact of Ind AS 116
Profit for the year
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares?
Tax on buy-back of equity shares?
Buy-back of equity shares?
Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Purchase of non-controlling interests

 

(% crore)

PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
75 75
431 431
5 -
436 431
27 27
27 27
1,594 994
5,058 2,947
(4.114 (2.347
2,538 1,594
78,810 85,520
= (357)
32,430 32,340
(71) (339)
(31) 5
(3.726) a
(15,995) a
4114 2,347
= (93)
95,531 1,19,418

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 223

 
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

(% crore) 12) Revenue recognition
CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020 The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and
Less: Appropriations business solutions. The Group offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered,
Dividend on equity shares 10,850 31,896 integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
Tax on dividend = 5,738
Transfer to capital redemption reserve? 5 - Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 5,058 2.947 services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the
re-investment reserve Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Transfer to statutory reserve 32 27
yee AS STO e ~~ Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on
Statutory reserve output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of
Opening balance . 375 348 transactions processed, etc
Transfer from retained earnings 32 27 , :
407 375 . . .
Investment revaluation reserve e Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services
Opening balance 796 192 contracts where the Group Is standing ready to provide services Is
Change during the year (net) 32 604 recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue Is straight lined over
828 796 the period of performance.
Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note &8(j))
Opening balance (23) 104 e In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using
Change during the year (net) 52 (127 percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method?) of accounting
29 (23) with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of
Foreign currency translation reserve the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the
Opening balance 1,666 1,380 revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
Change during the year (net) 471 286
ee ——1666 e Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and

eS 053) eee SD manufactured systems and third party software is recognised upfront

at the point in time when the system / software Is delivered to the
1 . . . . :
Refer note &(). customer. In cases where implementation and / or customisation services
rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 224
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and
revenue Is recognised over time on a POC method .

e Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware Is recognised at
the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.

e The solutions offered by the Group may include supply of third-party
equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for supply of such third
party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether
the Group ts acting as the principal or as an agent of the customer. The
Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when
it Is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is
acting as an agent.

Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the
consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level credits,
performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in
the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from
customers.

The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer
multiple products and services to a customer. The Group assesses the
products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance
obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct performance obligation
involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the
customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.

Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the
contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each distinct performance
obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

consideration or variable consideration with elements such as volume
discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time
value of money if the contract includes a significant financing component. Any
consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price,
unless it is a payment for a distinct product or service from the customer. The
estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction price
only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed

at the end of each reporting period. The Group allocates the elements of
variable considerations to all the performance obligations of the contract
unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct
performance obligations.

The Group exercises Judgement in determining whether the performance
obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Group
considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services
are rendered or who controls the asset as it is being created or existence
of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use
of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the
customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.

Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain
software licence costs which meet the criteria for capitalisation. Such costs are
amortised over the contractual period or useful life of the licence, whichever
is less. The assessment of this criteria requires the application of judgement, in
particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used
to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to
be recovered.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 225
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Contract assets are recognised when there is excess of revenue earned over
billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified as unbilled receivables (only
act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash,
and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.

Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there
is billings in excess of revenues.

The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance
based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are
payable within contractually agreed credit period.

In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract
provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a
contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.

Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract
specification and requirements. The Group reviews modification to contract
in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price
could be allocated to a new performance obligation, or transaction price of an
existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price Is
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.

The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of
services, industry verticals and geography.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Consultancy services 1,62,508 154,829
Sale of equipment and software licences 1,669 2,120
1,64,177 1,56,949

 

Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included
in segment information (Refer note 19).

While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be
recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance
obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise
those revenues, the Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115.
Accordingly, the Group has not disclosed the aggregate transaction price
allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which
pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds to the value
transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based
and event based contracts.

Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to
variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of
contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in
currency rates, tax laws etc). The aggregate value of transaction price allocated
to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is 71,13,827 crore
out of which 53.05% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year
and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is
excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 226
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Changes in contract assets are as follows:

(% crore)

Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2020

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

Invoices raised that were included in the contract
assets balance at the beginning of the year

Increase due to revenue recognised during the
year, excluding amounts billed during the year

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(% crore)

Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2020

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

Revenue recognised that was included in the
unearned and deferred revenue balance at the
beginning of the year

Increase due to invoicing during the year,
excluding amounts recognised as revenue during
the year

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

13)

Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(% crore)

Year ended Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
1,66,917

158.977
(2,028)

Contracted price
Reductions towards variable consideration (2.740)
components

Revenue recognised

 

1,64,177 1,56,949

The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts,
service level credits, etc.

Other income

Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.

Other income consists of the following:

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Interest income 2,504
Dividend income 8

Net gain on investments carried at fair value
through profit or loss

Net gain on sale of investments other than
equity shares carried at fair value through OCI
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 227
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

14)

(% crore)
Year ended Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Net gain on lease modification 100 13
Net foreign exchange gain 248 727
Rent income 1 1
Other income 56 19
3,134 4,592
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits 137 519
Interest on financial assets carried at amortised 587 613
cost
Interest on financial assets carried at fair value 1,762 1,878
through OCl
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds) 18 552
Dividend income comprises:
Dividend from mutual fund units and other 8 10
investments

 

 

 

 

Employee benefits
Defined benefit plans

For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out
at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and
losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and unvested, is recognised
as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment
occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or
termination benefits.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents
the present value of the defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value
of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation Is limited to the
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the
scheme.

The Group provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund
(Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined
benefit plans.

Defined contribution plans

Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when
employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.

The Group provides benefits such as superannuation, provident fund (other
than Company managed fund) and foreign defined contribution plans to its
employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.

Short-term employee benefits
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering
the service are classified as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such

as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised
in the period in which the employee renders the related service. A liability

Consolidated Financial Statements | 228
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service Employee benefit obligations — Non-current

provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. (% crore)

CE \d PAA

Compensated absences March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Gratuity liability 8

Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months Foreign defined benefit plans 308

after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related Other employee benefit obligations —___264 —__101

417

 

services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services
are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.

Employee benefit obligations — Current
(% crore)
CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Compensated absences

Employee benefit expenses consist of the following: Other employee benefit obligations

(% crore)

 

Year ended Year ended
a. : ERAN EH GUE | (Menai St, oes Employee benefits plans consist of the following:
Salaries, incentives and allowances 83,045 77.660 Gratuit d .
ao . ra and pension
Contributions to provident and other funds 6,401 5,834 ony Penst
Staff welfare expenses 2,368 2.458 In accordance with Indian law, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its

subsidiaries in India operate a scheme of gratuity which Is a defined benefit
plan. The gratuity plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees
at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment
of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed
year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five continuous years of
service. The Company manages the plan through a trust. Trustees administer
contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company
also provide for retirement benefit pension plans in accordance with the local
laws.

 

91,814 85,952

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 229
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

 

 

(® crore)
Year ended March 31, 2021 Year ended March 31, 2020
Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign
plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded

Change in benefit obligations
Benefit obligations, beginning of the year 3,638 8 753 145 4,544 2,679 4 629 120 3,432
Translation exchange difference - - (21) 6 (15) - - 55 5 60
Plan assumed on insourcing of employees = = 1,348 20 1,368 30 = = = 30
Plan participants’ contribution = = 12 = 12 a a 9 a 9
Service cost 460 2 27 32 521 358 1 16 22 397
Interest cost 244 1 12 3 260 222 = 11 5 238
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 135 2 139 18 294 520 4 43 2 569
Past service cost / (credit) - - - - - - - - 1 1
Benefits paid (162) (1) 21 (6) (148) (171) (1) (10) (10) (192)
Benefit obligations, end of the year 4,315 12 2,291 218 6,836 3,638 8 753 145 4,544

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 230
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

 

(® crore)
Year ended March 31, 2021 Year ended March 31, 2020
Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign
plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded

Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 3,643 - 627 - 4,270 2,672 - 532 - 3,204
Translation exchange difference - - (17) - (17) - - Al - Al
Plan assumed on insourcing of employees = = 1,302 = 1,302 30 = = = 30
Interest income 269 = 9 = 278 235 = 9 = 244
Employers’ contributions 837 = 25 = 862 766 a 17 a 783
Plan participants’ contribution = = 12 = 12 a a 9 a 9
Benefits paid (162) = 21 = (141) (171) 2 (10) 2 (181)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding 119 = 93 = 212 111 = 29 = 140
amount included in interest income
Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 4,706 - 2,072 - 6,778 3,643 - 627 - 4,270

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 231
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over obligations

Surplus of plan assets over obligations

Category of assets

Corporate bonds

Equity instruments

Government bonds and securities
Insurer managed funds

Bank balances

Others

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

PleYecialo
plans
Funded

As at March 31, 2021

Prey teciale Foreign Foreign Domestic
plans plans plans plans

Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded

(® crore)
As at March 31, 2020

Domestic Foreign Foreign
plans plans plans

Unfunded Funded Unfunded

 

 

 

 

= (12) (255) (218) (485) = (8) (163) (145) (316)
391 = 36 = 427 5 = 37 = 42
391 (12) (219) (218) (58) 5 (8) (126) (145) (274)

(® crore)

PleYecialo

plans
Funded

As at March 31, 2021

Prey teciale Foreign Foreign Domestic
plans plans plans plans
erie are [exe] UT ats(exe| err are [exe] rats ase)

As at March 31, 2020

Domestic Foreign Foreign
plans plans plans
erie aT«[=re| Funded er ir ats fexe|

 

 

1,408 = 805 = 2,213 1,004 Sd 137 Sd 1,141
29 = = = 29 17 Sd Sd Sd 17
2,257 = = = 2.257 1,695 Sd Sd Sd 1,695
910 = 430 = 1,340 852 Sd 275 Sd 1,127
2 = 3 = 5 Sd Sd 6 Sd 6
100 = 834 = 934 75 Sd 209 Sd 284
4,706 5 2,072 5 6,778 3,643 3 627 3 4,270

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 232
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:

 

 

 

(® crore)
Year ended March 31, 2021 Year ended March 31, 2020
Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign
plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
Service cost 460 2 27 32 521 358 1 16 22 397
Net interest on net defined benefit (25) 1 3 3 (18) (13) - 2 5 (6)
(asset) / liability
Past service cost / (credit) - - - - - - - - 1 1
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost 435 3 30 35 503 345 1 18 28 392
Actual return on plan assets 388 5 102 5 490 346 3 38 3 384

 

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:

(% crore)

Year ended March 31, 2021

 

 

 

 

 

Domestic plans Dreyaateiele Lary Foreign plans Foreign plans
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (32) - 118 19 105
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience adjustments 143 2 20 1 166
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 135 2 139 18 294
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income (119) - (93) - (212)

16 2 46 18 82

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 233
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

(% crore)

Year ended March 31, 2020

Domestic plans pre yeateriele) lary Foreign plans Foreign plans

Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded

 

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions

 

 

 

 

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 345 1 A7 10 403
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience adjustments 180 3 1 1 185
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 520 4 43 2 569
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income (111) - (29) - (140)

409 4 14 2 429

 

 

 

The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:

 

Year ended March 31, 2021 Year ended March 31, 2020
Domestic plans Foreign plans Domestic plans Foreign plans
Discount rate 4.25%-7.00% 0.40%-7.55% 5.25%-6.75% 0.60%- 8.05%
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered employees 4.00%-6.00% 1.25%- 7.00% 4.00%-7.00% 1.25%- 7.00%
Rate of return on plan assets 4.25%-7.00% 0.40%-7.55% 5.25%-6.75% 0.60%- 8.05%
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations 3-18 years 5-65 years 3-18 years 6-26.10 years

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 234
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.

The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to
measure Group’s defined benefit plan obligations as at March 31, 2021. The
Group ts expected to contribute 7140 crore to defined benefit plan obligations
funds for the year ending March 31, 2022 comprising domestic component of
117 crore and foreign component of %23 crore.

The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined
benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The
sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible
changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting
period, while holding all other assumptions constant.

If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit
obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Increase of 0.50% (378) (236)
Decrease of 0.50% 421 262

 

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined
benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

(% crore)
PE PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Increase of 0.50% 276 177
Decrease of 0.50% (260) (165)

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the
actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the
change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the
assumptions may be correlated.

Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of
the defined benefit obligations has been calculated using the Projected Unit
Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the
balance sheet.

Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the
consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk
and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within
this study.

The defined benefit obligations shall mature after year ended March 31, 2021
as follows:

(% crore)
Year ending March 31,
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027-2031

Defined benefit obligations

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 235
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Provident fund

In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of Tata Consultancy
Services Limited in India are entitled to receive benefits under the provident
fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined

rate) contribute monthly to a trust set up by the Company to manage the
investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is

a defined benefit plan as the Company is obligated to provide its members a
rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest rate declared
by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company's
contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. The
contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are
recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund liabilities on

the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the
assumptions as mentioned below, there is no deficiency in the interest cost as
the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than
the expected amount to be credited to the individual members based on the
expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident
fund.

All eligible employees of Indian subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to
receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both the employee
and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to the Government
administered provident fund plan. A part of the company’s contribution is
transferred to Government administered pension fund. This plan is a defined
contribution plan as the obligation of the employer ts limited to the monthly
contributions made to the fund. The contributions made to the fund are
recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(% crore)
CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Fair value of plan assets 20,003 17,072

Present value of defined benefit obligations (20,003 (17,072
Net excess / (shortfall) = -

 

The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and
corporate bonds.

The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of
interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
(% crore)
CE \d PAA

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Discount rate
Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio
Guaranteed rate of return

 

The Group expensed %1,085 crore and 71,042 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards provident fund.

Superannuation

All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under
Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Group makes monthly
contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Group
recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Group has
no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 236
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

15

—

The Group expensed %366 crore and %356 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation
Fund.

Foreign defined contribution plans

The Group expensed %1,458 crore and 1,324 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution
plans.

Cost recognition

Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified
according to their nature.

The costs of the Group are broadly categorised into employee benefit
expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, depreciation and
amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include
fees to external consultants, facility expenses, travel expenses, communication
expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses is an
aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission
and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
(% crore)

Breer arelaxe|
March 31, 2020

Berle erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and
components consumed
Equipment and software licences purchased

Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock*
Less: Closing stock*

 

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

(b) Other expenses
Other expenses consist of the following:
(% crore)

Breer arelaxe|
March 31, 2020

Berle erarelaxe|

March 31, 2021
Fees to external consultants
Facility expenses
Travel expenses
Communication expenses
Bad debts and advances written off,
allowance for doubtful trade receivables
and advances (net)
Other expenses

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 237
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

16)

17)

Finance costs
Finance costs consist of the following:

(% crore)

Year ended Bela erarelaxe|

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Interest on lease liabilities 523
Interest on tax matters 96

Other interest costs 18

Income taxes

Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in

the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. Current and deferred taxes
are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to
items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity,
in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

Current income taxes

The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the
Company, its branches and its subsidiaries in India and overseas. The current
tax payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax
payable on worldwide income after taking credit for tax relief available for
export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is
computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the jurisdiction in
which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available
for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide
income.

The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed
based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary in the respective
jurisdiction in which it operates.

Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the
balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and income tax provision
arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.

Deferred income taxes

Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the
initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not
a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or
loss at the time of the transaction.

Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses
can be utilised.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 238
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each The income tax expense consists of the following:
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that (% crore)
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred

income tax asset to be utilised. alate) NE Tareants [xe]

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Current tax
differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with Current tax expense for current year 11.737 9,730
investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporar .

. - 3 “emp y Current tax expense / (benefit) pertaining to (102) 648
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference prior years

will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

11,635 10,378

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax Deferred tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary

: : Deferred tax expense / (benefit) for current year (359) 899
differences are expected to be received or settled.

Deferred tax benefit pertaining to prior years (78) (1.476)
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have (437) (577)
been established for the tax consequences of those temporary differences 11,198 9,801

between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.

 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance

with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be available for set off against
future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred

tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it

is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be

realised.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 239
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income
tax rate to income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit

Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

and loss is as follows: (® crore)
(% crore} Opening Recognised  Recognisedin/  Ajustments Exchange Closing
Year ended Year ended PETE a AR Pa sR AS eC LCR scam ET
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020 ETM eee aul Umeda NCTA

Profit before tax 43,760 42,248 income

Indian statutory income tax rate 34.94% 34.94% Deferred tax assets /

Expected income tax expense 15,292 14.764 (liabilities) in relation to

Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile Property, plant and 145 124 o 40 o 309

expected income tax expense to reported equipment and intangible

income tax expense assets

Tax holidays (4,708) (4,879) Provision for employee 654 168 8 77 (10) 897

Income exempt from tax (325) (285) benefits

Undistributed earnings in branches and (13) 428 Cash flow hedges 7 - (15) - 5 (8)

subsidiaries Receivables, financial 388 35 - - 1 424

Tax on income at different rates 843 152 assets at amortised cost

Tax pertaining to prior years (180) (828) MAT credit entitlement 1,074 39 > 597 -| 1,710

Others (net) 289 A449 Branch profit tax (284) (26) - - -| (310)

Total income tax expense 11,198 9,801 Undistributed earnings of (286) 88 - - -| (198)

oo —— subsidiaries

Tata Consultancy Services Limited benefits from the tax holiday available for cimealsed gen (484) 1 (17) oe

units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays fair value through

are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of profit or loss / other

operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services comprehensive income

on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits Lease liabilities 345 (84) - - - 261

or gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such Others 490 92 : = GB) 579

profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits 2,049 437 (24) 714| _((12)) 3,164

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain
conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits from units set up under SEZ scheme
are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 240
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

As at March 31, 2021
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

Property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets

Provision for employee benefits

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement

Branch profit tax

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

Lease liabilities

Others

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Pela

458

908
(8)
424
1,710

(500)

260
679

3,931

 

Bley [ater

149

11

310
198

100

767

 

(% crore)

Nes

309

897
(8)

1,710
(310)
(198)
(500)

261
579

3,164

 

 

Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2020 are as follows:

Deferred tax assets /
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and
equipment and intangible
assets

Provision for employee
benefits

Cash flow hedges
Receivables, financial
assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax
Undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries

Unrealised gain on
securities carried at

fair value through

profit or loss / other
comprehensive income
Lease liabilities*

Others

Opening Recognised

Deletes

aw Rei
Eat ilesys

ictal MT
reclassified from
Cold Teel aD RSET)
fates

NUS dirancy
/ utilisation

Exchange
difference

( crore)
Coles]
Deletes

 

 

95 50 2 2 2 145
531 101 5 2 17 654
(12) 2 19 2 2 7
340 46 2 2 2 388

1,170 (96) 2 2 -| 1,074
(299) 15 2 2 -| (284)
(574) 288 2 2 -| (286)
(149) (1) (334) 2 -| (484)
264 80 2 2 1 345
418 94 = = (22) 490
1,784 577 (310) 3 (2)| 2,049

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Opening balance of deferred tax on lease liabilities has been restated by 7170 crore to
give impact of transition to Ind AS 116.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 241

 
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

(% crore)

As at March 31, 2020 NS et ac} Liabilities Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 279 134 145
assets
Provision for employee benefits 663 9 654
Cash flow hedges 7 = 7
Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost 387 (1) 388
MAT credit entitlement 1,074 a 1,074
Branch profit tax - 284 (284)
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries - 286 (286)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value (483) 1 (484)
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income
Lease liabilities 342 (3) 345
Others Beg) 69 490

2,828 779 2,049

 

 

 

 

 

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, unabsorbed business losses expire 8 years

after the year in which they originate. In respect of certain foreign subsidiaries,

business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial
change in the ownership.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Unrecognised deferred tax assets relate primarily to business losses and tax
credit entitlements which do not qualify for recognition as per the applicable
accounting standards. These unexpired business losses will expire based on the
year of origination as follows:

(% crore)
March 31, Unabsorbed business losses
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026

Thereafter

 

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Tata Consultancy Services Limited is liable
to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be
carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future
tax liabilities. MAT is recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset
can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit
associated with the asset will be realised.

Deferred tax liability on temporary differences of 9,100 crore as at
March 31, 2021, associated with investments in subsidiaries, has not been
recognised, as it is the intention of Tata Consultancy Services Limited to
reinvest the earnings of these subsidiaries for the foreseeable future.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 242
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Direct tax contingencies

The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with income tax
authorities in India and in some of the jurisdictions where they operate. The
disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deductions,
computation or eligibility of tax incentives or allowances and characterisation
of fees for services received. The Company and its subsidiaries have
contingent liability of 955 crore and 71,512 crore as at March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively, in respect of tax demands which are being contested by
the Company and its subsidiaries based on the management evaluation and
advice of tax consultants. In respect of tax contingencies of 318 crore and
%318 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, not included above,
the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e-Serve
Limited.

The Group periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax

authorities related to the Group’s operations in the jurisdictions it operates in.

The Group has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that
any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities
will not succeed on ultimate resolution.

The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending
on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India,
tax filings from fiscal 2018 are generally subject to examination by the tax
authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation
applies to fiscals 2017 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation
vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to
fiscal 2018 and earlier.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

18) Earnings per share

19

—

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable
to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the year. The Company did not have any
potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.

Year ended
March 31, 2020

32,340

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 32,430

of the Company (® crore}

374,01,10,733
86.71

375,23,84,706
86.19

Weighted average number of equity shares
Basic and diluted earnings per share (2)

Face value per equity share (?} 1 1

 

Segment information

Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which
discrete financial information ts available that is evaluated regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and
assessing performance. The Group’s chief operating decision maker is the
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.

The Group has identified business segments (‘industry vertical’) as reportable
segments. The business segments comprise: 1) Banking, Financial Services
and Insurance, 2) Manufacturing, 3) Retail and Consumer Business,

4) Communication, Media and Technology and 5) Others such as Energy,
Resources and Utilities, Life Sciences and Healthcare, s-Governance and
Products.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 243
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under
each reportable segment. Expenses which are not directly identifiable to
each reporting segment have been allocated on the basis of associated
revenue of the segment or manpower efforts. All other expenses which are
not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable
expenses.

The assets and liabilities of the Group are used interchangeably amongst
segments. Allocation of such assets and liabilities is not practicable and any
forced allocation would not result in any meaningful segregation. Hence assets
and liabilities have not been identified to any of the reportable segments.

Summarised segment information for the years ended March 31, 2021 and
2020 is as follows:

Year ended March 31, 2021 ( crore)
Banking, Manufacturing Retailand Communication, Others Total
aieUree| et ects)

SeTa ese Business Technology
Ens)

  

Revenue from operations 27,077 |29,927
Segment result 8,010) 8,221
Total unallocable expenses*
Operating income

Other income

Profit before tax

Tax expense

Profit for the year
Depreciation and
amortisation expense
(unallocable)

Significant non-cash items
(allocable)

 

 

*Includes the provision towards legal claim of 71,218 crore. Refer note 20.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Year ended March 31, 2020 ( crore)
Banking, Manufacturing Retailand Communication, Others Total
aienter| eta sta)

NTT TIT" Business Technology
aS elatesy

Revenue from operations 61,095 16,468| 26,280 25,978 | 27,128 | 1,56,949
Segment result 16,950 4,445 6,870 7,703| 6,141
Total unallocable expenses
Operating income
Other income
Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the year
Depreciation and
amortisation expense
(unallocable)
Significant non-cash items
(allocable)

Geographical revenue Is allocated based on the location of the customers.

   

 

 

 

Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:
(% crore)

Geography Year ended Year ended
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Americas (1) 84,278 82,000
Europe (2) 52,346 48.037
India 8449 8,964
Others 19,104 17,948

1,64,177 1,56,949

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 244
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use

assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax assets and other non-
current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.

Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
(% crore)

Geography CE \d PAA
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Americas (3) 2.470 2.596
Europe (4} 4.018 3,382
India 17,901 18,920
Others 1,016 1,109

25,405 26,007

 

e = (1) and (3) are substantially related to operations in the United States of
America.

e = (2) includes revenue in the United Kingdom of %25,659 crore and
%24 899 crore for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020,

respectively.

e = (4) includes non-current assets in the United Kingdom of %1,546 crore
and %1,245 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Information about major customers

No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for
the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

20) Commitments and contingencies

Capital commitments

The Group has contractually committed (net of advances) 71,071 crore and
21,396 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, for purchase of
property, plant and equipment.

Contingencies

e = Direct tax matters
Refer note 17.

e = Indirect tax matters

The Company and its subsidiaries in India have ongoing disputes with
Indian tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation
and classification of certain items. The Company and its subsidiaries have
demands amounting to %556 crore and %517 crore as at March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which
are being contested by the Company and its subsidiaries based on the
management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.

e Other claims
Claims aggregating 7194 crore and %211 crore as at March 31, 2021 and

2020, respectively, against the Group have not been acknowledged as
debts.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 245
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation
(referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company in the Court
of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to
and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the
development of the Company’s product MedMantra. In April 2016, the
Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of
%6,900 crore (US $940 million) to Epic which was thereafter reduced
by the Trial Court to 3,083 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to
reaffirmation of the District Court order in March 2019, the Company
filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge
of %734 crore (US $100 million) award and 71,468 crore

(US $200 million) in punitive damages. On August 20, 2020, the Appeals
Court vacated the award of %2,055 crore (US $280 million) in punitive
damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and
remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to reassess
and reduce the punitive damages award to at most %1,028 crore

(US $140 million), affirmed the District Court’s decision vacating the
jury’s award of 734 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages
for alleged use of “other confidential information” by the Company,

and affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of
%1,028 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of the
comparative analysis by the Company. The Company filed a petition for
re-hearing of compensatory and punitive damages at the Appeals Court
on September 3, 2020. Epic also filed for re-hearing that portion of the
Appeals Court’s decision that invalidated award of punitive damages.

In November 2020, the petitions for re-hearing filed by the Company
and Epic, respectively, were denied by the Appeals Court. The

to the District Court. Both the Company and Epic have filed their briefs
at the District Court in relation to punitive damages. The matter is

under consideration by the District Court. On April 8, 2021, Epic has
approached the Supreme Court seeking review of the order of the
Appeals Court vacating the award of 72,055 crore (US $280 million)
towards punitive damages and remanding back to District Court with an
instruction to reassess the punitive damages, to no more than

%1,028 crore (US $140 million). The Company will continue to pursue all
legal options available in the matter. Considering all the facts and various
legal precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company has
provided 71,218 crore (US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its
statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2021. This has
been presented as an “exceptional item” in the consolidated statement of
profit and loss.

Pursuant to US Court procedures, a Letter of Credit has been made
available to Epic for %3,230 crore (US $440 million) as financial security
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal
proceedings and conclusion.

Letter of comfort

The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities
availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of comfort, the
Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or
indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and
financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the
subsidiary.

The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could

proceedings for assessing punitive damages have been remanded back be claimed by counter parties.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 246
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

21) Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interests

 

 

 

 

 

Name of the entity Ce komem % of voting %of voting Net assets, ie. total assets minus Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive income _—_ Share in total comprehensive
incorporation Pee Pee total liabilities income
co cog aod Amount aed Amount As % of consolidated Amount As % of total Amount
March 31, March 31, consolidated net kamera) consolidated  (%crore) other comprehensive carole ceed TaN Si3) (i CAROLE)
ae ry ERsacd profit or loss income income
Tata Consultancy Services Limited India - - 80.20 74,794 86.46 30,960 (48.34) 73 87.03 31,033
Subsidiaries (held directly)
Indian
APTOnline Limited India 89.00 89.00 O11 101 0.04 15 o o 0.04 15
MP Online Limited India 89.00 89.00 O11 104 0.04 16 o o 0.04 16
C-Edge Technologies Limited India 51.00 51.00 0.30 277 0.20 72 o o 0.20 72
MahaOnline Limited India 74.00 74.00 0.09 82 0.01 4 o o 0.01 4
TCS e-Serve International Limited India 100.00 100.00 0.07 69 014 51 0.66 (1) 0.14 50
TCS Foundation India 100.00 100.00 117 1,088 0.26 93 o o 0.26 93
Foreign
Diligenta Limited UK. 100.00 100.00 1.50 1,403 074 265 464 (7) 0.72 258
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. Canada 100.00 100.00 1.04 970 131 468 > > 131 468
Tata America International Corporation USA. 100.00 100.00 126 1174 184 659 132 (2) 184 657
Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.00 100.00 0.95 885 0.64 230 o o 0.65 230
Tata Consultancy Services Belgium Belgium 100.00 100.00 055 511 047 167 o o 0.47 167
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.00 100.00 0.74 692 0.60 216 6.62 (10) 0.58 206
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV Netherlands 100.00 100.00 3.01 2,811 0.96 344 - - 0.96 344
Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB Sweden 100.00 100.00 081 758 042 152 > > 0.43 152
TCS FNS Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 0.16 145 0.22 77 o o 0.22 77
TCS Iberoamerica SA Uruguay 100.00 100.00 1.70 1,588 1.07 384 o o 1.08 384
Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd. South Africa 100.00 100.00 0.06 53 0.07 25 - - 0.07 25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 247
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

Name of the entity Ce komem % of voting %of voting Net assets, ie. total assets minus Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive income _—_ Share in total comprehensive
incorporation Pee Pee total liabilities income
cor cos STE Mire g SOE PN TeV ain helen seine Mire g Saale] Mire g
March 31, March 31, consolidated net kamera) consolidated  (%crore) other comprehensive carole ceed TaN Si3) (i CAROLE)
cara cade ERsacd profit or loss income income
CMC Americas, Inc. USA. a 100.00 a a 0.08 30 a a 0.08 30
Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. Qatar 100.00 100.00 0.03 31 o o o o o o
W12 Studios Limited UK. 100.00 100.00 0.03 28 a a a a a a
Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited lreland 100.00 2 0.25 230 0.04 14 o o 0.04 14
Subsidiaries (held indirectly)
Foreign
TCS e-Serve America, Inc. USA. 100.00 100.00 a 2 0.04 16 a a 0.04 16
Tata Consultancy Services (China} Co, Ltd. China 93.20 93.20 0.25 230 0.15 52 - - 0.15 52
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. Japan 66.00 66.00 1.52 1,422 0.65 231 > > 0.65 231
Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.00 100.00 0.10 94 0.08 27 > > 0.08 27
PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia Indonesia 100.00 100.00 0.03 29 0.03 12 o o 0.03 12
Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc. Philippines} 100.00) 100.00 O11 98 0.01 3 (0.66) 1 0.01 4
Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100.00 100.00 0.02 15 0.03 10 - - 0.03 10
TCS Italia s.r. Italy} 100.00 100.00 0.06 58 0.07 26 a a 0.07 26
Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. Capellen (GD. 100.00 100.00 O12 110 015 53 > > 0.15 53
de Luxembourg)
Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd. Switzerland 100.00 100.00 058 545 0.69 248 464 (7) 0.68 241
Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH Austria 100.00 100.00 0.01 5 o o o o o o
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS Denmark 100.00 100.00 0.01 6 > > > > > >
Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A. Spain 100.00 100.00 0.06 53 0.03 11 > > 0.03 11
Tata Consultancy Services (Portugal) Portugal 100.00 100.00 0.01 5 0.01 5 > > 0.01 5
Unipessoal, Limitada

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 248
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of the entity Ce komem % of voting %of voting Net assets, ie. total assets minus Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive income _—_ Share in total comprehensive
incorporation Pee Pee total liabilities income
cor cos SOE Teg SOE Amount As % of consolidated Teg As % of total Teg
March 31, March 31, consolidated net kamera) consolidated  (%crore) other comprehensive carole ceed TaN Si3) (i CAROLE)
cara cade ERsacd profit or loss income income

Tata Consultancy Services France France 100.00 100.00 (0.46) (432) (0.03) (9) 2.65 (4) (0.04) (13)
Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 76.00 76.00 0.29 271 0.08 27 (0.66) 1 0.08 28
TCS Business Services GmbH Germany 100.00 100.00 (0.03) (28) (0.01) (3) 16.56 (25) (0.08) (28)
Postbank Systems AG Germany 100.00 - (0.02) (21) (0.14) (51) 106.62 (161) (0.59) (212)
Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa} South Africa 100.00 100.00 0.09 85 0.09 34 - - 0.10 34
(PTY) Ltd.

TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co, Ltd. China 100.00 100.00 0.04 37 0.03 9 o o 0.03 9
TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 0.09 81 O11 40 o o 0.11 40
TCS Solution Center S.A. Uruguay 100.00 100.00 037 342 0.33 119 > > 0.33 119
TCS Uruguay S.A. Uruguay 100.00 100.00 0.10 96 0.83 296 > > 0.83 296
Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. Argentina 100.00 100.00 - 2 (0.01) (2) - - (0.01) (2)
Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100.00 100.00 021 200 0.20 71 o o 0.20 71
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico SA, Mexico 100.00 100.00 108 1,004 068 244 464 (7) 0.66 237
De CN.

MGDC S.C. Mexico 100.00 100.00 0.06 57 O12 44 131 (2) 0.12 42
TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile 100.00 100.00 035 327 0.01 2 > > 0.01 2
Tata Consultancy Services Chile SA. Chile 100.00 100.00 042 393 (0.01) (2) - - (0.01) (2)
Technology Outsourcing SAC. Peru - 100.00 - - (0.02) (7) - - (0.02) (7)
TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. Ecuador 100.00 100.00 O11 103 0.13 45 > > 0.13 45
Trusts India > 2 0.28 277 0.06 14 a > 0.05 14
TOTAL 100.00 93,260 100.00 35,807 100.00 (151) 100.00 35,656
a} Adjustments arising out of (6,152} (3,245} 612 (2,632}

consolidation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 249
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

Name of the entity Ce komem % of voting %of voting Net assets, ie. total assets minus Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive income _—_ Share in total comprehensive
incorporation Pee Pee total liabilities income

as at cord As % of Amount Ae) Amount As % of consolidated Amount As % of total Amount
March 31, March 31, consolidated net kamera) consolidated  (%crore) other comprehensive carole ceed TaN Si3) (i CAROLE)
2021 2020 ERs profit or loss income income

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b) —_ Non-controlling interests
Indian subsidiaries
APTOnline Limited (11) (2) - (2)
MP Online Limited (11) (2) - (2)
C-Edge Technologies Limited (136) (40) - (40)
MahaOnline Limited (21) (2) - (2)
Foreign subsidiaries
Tata Consultancy Services (China} Co., (16) (4) - (4)
Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. (480) (82) 23 (59)
(675) (132) 23 (109)
TOTAL 86.433 32,430 484 32,915
Notes:

1. CMC Americas, Inc. was liquidated w.e.f. December 16, 2020.
Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited was incorporated on December 2, 2020.
Tata Consultancy Services France SA was renamed as Tata Consultancy Services France.

Equity stake in Postbank Systems AG acquired w.e.f. January 1, 2021.

aoe wn

Equity stake in Technology Outsourcing S.A.C. was sold on December 1, 2020.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Consolidated Financial Statements | 250
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

22) Related party transactions ( crore)

Year ended March 31, 2021

The Company's principal related parties consist of its holding company
Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and Ac Elly
key managerial personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and Sreir) MEIC
outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Group routinely Private Slits
enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 for a BN
list of subsidiaries of the Company. lis

erg
[rele lver
Peat

Sera e
na ence hl
Tata Sons Private
Limited and their

vs elasrs

 

Bad debts and advances written off,
allowance for doubtful trade receivables
and advances (net)

Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on
consolidation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: : : Contribution and advance to post - - -| 5913 5,913
Transactions with related parties are as follows: employment benefit plans
(® crore) Purchase of property, plant and > 3 88 2 91
STE CES eLOral equipment
Lec memS DSI Sear aee Other Loans and advances given - 1 6 - 7
Std mic ian ec Loans and advances recovered - 1 10 - 11
alec} Sons BEV stein Ad k fl - F
Limited Pes) Miiticcielaremearclls vances taxen . .
Limited vse Dividend paid 7,817 4 3 - 7,824
Revenue from operations 35 609 2,205 - 2,849 Buy-back of shares 9,998 4 - - 10,002
Purchases of goods and services 1 475 361 > 837
(including reimbursements)
Brand equity contribution 180 o o o 180
Facility expenses o 20 42 o 62
Lease rental 1 36 45 > 82

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 251

 
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Revenue from operations

Purchases of goods and services
(including reimbursements)

Brand equity contribution
Facility expenses
Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off,
allowance for doubtful trade receivables
and advances (net)

Contribution and advance to post
employment benefit plans

Purchase of property, plant and
equipment

Loans and advances given
Loans and advances recovered

Dividend paid

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

aE

Byers
aE
Limited

22,971

 

Year ended March 31, 2020

Scere
of Tata
Seyi
els)
Aianisere
432
556

68

219

 

Sela toe
oman Kee
Tata Sons Private
Aiiticcielare meals

sea ers

2,193
457

26

110

85
30

 

eit
irae lver
Pea

2,684

 

( crore)

 

2,656
1,014

162

96

2,684

329

89
33
22,980

 

 

Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:

Trade receivables, unbilled receivables
and contract assets

Loans, other financial assets and other
assets

Trade receivables, unbilled receivables
and contract assets

Loans, other financial assets and other
assets

Tata
Byers
PEs)
Limited

 

( crore)

As at March 31, 2021

erg
[rele lver
Peat

Bec eiaers Sera e
OM Ee] na ence hl
Sons Tata Sons Private
STE) Limited and their

Limited vs elasrs

 

 

 

9 27 62 o 98
17 287 776 - 1,080
( crore)

Tata
Byers

Pes)
Limited

 

10

7S Enel es e428)

eng
irae lver
Pea

Scere Sela eA
of Tata ina en cleel hl
Sons Tata Sons Private
SINE) Limited and their

Limited Rebs elaers

30 65 2 105

 

14

276 746 s 1,036

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 252
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

Balances payable to related parties are as follows:

As at March 31, 2021

BE mS SCE
Byers of Tata

Solano
onan Kee
Tata Sons Private
Miiticcielaremearclls

Useless

aE Sons
Limited Pes)
Binet
Trade payables, unearned and deferred
revenue, other financial liabilities and
other liabilities

Commitments o 10 270

Olea
[rele lver
Pea

( crore)

 

280

 

As at March 31, 2020

BE mS SC Ea ors
Byers of Tata

Sela toe
oman Kee
Tata Sons Private
Aiiticcielare meals

sea ers

aE Sons

els)
Aianisere

Limited

Trade payables, unearned and deferred 148 246 244
revenue, other financial liabilities and
other liabilities

Commitments 2 11 367

eit
irae lver
Pea

( crore)

 

§38

378

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Material related party transactions are as follows:

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Revenue from operations
Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Tata Steel [Jmuiden BV

Material related party balances are as follows:

PE
March 31, 2021

Trade receivables, unbilled receivables and
contract assets

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Short-term benefits 43
Dividend paid during the year 1
44

(% crore)

Bele cate(=re)
March 31, 2020

 

(% crore)

PCE
March 31, 2020

 

Year ended
March 31, 2020

 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 253
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements

 

23

24

25

—

—

—

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the
remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and
market trends.

The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity
and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation /
premium paid are not available.

The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is 10 crore
and ®9 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which
would impact the contributions by the company towards Provident Fund and
Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for
the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and has invited
suggestions from stake holders which are under active consideration by the
Ministry. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will assess the impact and its
evaluation once the subject rules are notified and will give appropriate impact
in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective
and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.

Dividends

Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2021 include an amount of
6.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31,
2020 and an amount of %23.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for
the year ended March 31, 2021. Dividends paid during the year ended

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

March 31, 2020 include an amount of %18.00 per equity share towards final
dividend for the year ended March 31, 2019 and an amount of %67.00 per
equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) for the year
ended March 31, 2020.

Dividends declared by the Company are based on profits available for
distribution. On April 12, 2021, the Board of Directors of the Company
have proposed a final dividend of %15.00 per share in respect of the year
ended March 31, 2021 subject to the approval of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of
approximately %5,549 crore.

 

As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board

For BS R & Co. LLP Rajesh Gopinathan =N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants CEO and COO and Executive Director
Firm's registration no: Managing Director

101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
Partner CFO Company Secretary
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021 Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Consolidated Financial Statements | 254
Standalone
Financial
Statements

 

Independent Auditors’ Report

To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited

Report on the Audit of the Standalone
Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the standalone financial statements
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter
referred to as “the Company”), which comprise the
Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2021,
and the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
(including other comprehensive income), Standalone
Statement of Changes in Equity and Standalone
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended,
and notes to the standalone financial statements,
including a summary of the significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information
(hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial
statements”).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid
standalone financial statements give the information
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)

in the manner so required and give a true and fair

view in conformity with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the
Company as at 31 March 2021, and profit and other
comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash
flows for the year ended on that date.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone
Financial Statements section of our report. We

are independent of the Company in accordance
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India together with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the standalone financial statements under the
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the Code
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial
statements.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in
our professional judgment, were of most significance
in our audit of the standalone financial statements of
the current period. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the standalone financial
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion
on these matters.

Standalone Financial Statements | 255
Description of Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter ° On selected specific and statistical samples of

e . . contracts, we tested that the revenue recognized
Revenue recognition— Fixed price contracts _ : a
Is In accordance with the revenue recognition
accounting standard—

these contracts may involve onerous .
obligations which requires critical
assessment of foreseeable losses to be
made by the Company; and

 

The Company inter alia engages in Our audit procedures included the following:

Fixed-price contracts, wherein, revenue @ Obtained an understanding of the systems, e

at year-end, significant amount of work » Evaluated the identification of performance

is recognized using the percentage of
completion computed as per the input
method based on the Company's estimate of
contract costs (Refer Note 4{a} and Note 10
to the standalone financial statements).

We identified revenue recognition of fixed
price contracts as a Key Audit Matter since —

@ there is an inherent risk and presumed
fraud risk around the accuracy and
existence of revenues recognised
considering the customised and complex
nature of these contracts and significant
inputs of IT systems;

© application of revenue recognition
accounting standard (Ind AS 115,
Revenue from Contracts with customers}
is complex and involves a number of
key judgments and estimates mainly in
identifying performance obligations,
related transaction price and estimating
the future cost-to- completion of these
contracts, which Is used to determine
the percentage of completion of the
relevant performance obligation;

 

 

processes and controls implemented by the

Company for recording and computing revenue

and the associated contract assets, unearned and

deferred revenue balances.

Including involvement of our Information

technology (‘IT} specialists, as required:

» Assessed the IT environment in which the
business systems operate and tested system
controls over computation of revenue
recognised;

» Tested the IT controls over appropriateness
of cost and revenue reports generated by the
system;

» Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of
resources and budgeting systems which prevent
the unauthorized recording/changes to costs
incurred; and

» Tested on a random sampling basis the controls
relating to the estimation of contract costs
required to complete the respective projects.

 

 

in progress (Contract assets}, related to
these contracts are recognised on the
balance sheet.

 

obligations and the ascribed transaction price;

» Tested Company's computation of the

estimation of contract costs and onerous

obligations, if any. We:

© assessed that the estimates of costs to
complete were reviewed and approved
by appropriate designated management
personnel;

e performed a retrospective analysis of costs
incurred with estimated costs to identify
significant variations and challenged
whether those variations are required to be
considered in estimating the remaining costs
to complete the contract;

@ assessed the appropriateness of work
in progress (contract assets} on balance
sheet date by evaluating the underlying
documentation to identify possible
changes in estimated costs to complete the
remaining performance obligations; and

@ inspected underlying documents and

performed analytics to determine
reasonableness of contract costs.

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 256

 
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Evaluation of key tax matters

 

The Company operates in multiple
jurisdictions and is subject to periodic
challenges by local tax authorities on a range
of tax matters during the normal course

of business including transfer pricing and
indirect tax matters. These involve significant
judgment by the Company to determine

the possible outcome of the uncertain tax
positions, consequently having an impact

on related accounting and disclosures in the
standalone financial statements.

Refer Note 4(e} and Note 19 to the
standalone financial statements.

Our audit procedures included the following:

@ understood, assessed and tested the design,
implementation and operating effectiveness of key
controls over taxes;

@ Obtained an understanding of key tax matters;
The audit team, along with our internal tax experts -

» read and analysed select key correspondences,
external legal opinions/ consultations obtained
by the Company for key tax matters;

» evaluated and challenged key assumptions made
by the Company in estimating the current and
deferred tax balances;

» assessed and challenged the Company's
estimate of the possible outcome of the
disputed cases by considering legal precedence
and other judicial rulings; and

» Assessed and tested the presentation and
disclosures relating to taxes in the standalone
financial statements.

 

Assessment of provision towards legal claim

Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter

The Company has ongoing legal proceedings
with Epic Systems Corporation (referred

to as Epic}, for alleged unauthorised access
to and download of Epic’s confidential
information and use thereof in the
development of the Company's product
MedMantra. The Company in the current
year has recorded a provision of

71,218 crore (US $165 million} towards this
legal claim in its ‘Standalone Statement of
Profit and Loss’. This has been presented

as an “exceptional item” in the Standalone
Statement of Profit and Loss.

Due to the complexity involved in this
litigation, the Company applied judgement
in measuring and recognizing provision

an evaluation based on judicial precedents
and views shared by the lawyers (external
and internal} of the Company and detailed
deliberations with the Company's senior
management. Accordingly, it has been
considered as a key audit matter.

 

. . . e
towards the legal claim. This process involved

 

read and considered final orders by various courts
on this matter;

read and considered all available submissions filed
by both Epic and the Company to various courts till
date:

considered legal views obtained by the Company
from external law firms and the relevant judicial
precedents considered by the Company in their
assessment of provision towards this legal claim;
conducted detailed discussions with in-house

legal head and Company's senior management,

to understand their assessment on the most likely
outcome of this litigation and to understand the
basis considered for the provision towards this legal
claim; and

assessed the adequacy of provision recorded and
evaluated disclosures in the standalone financial
statements in relation to this legal claim.

 

Refer to Note 4(f} to the standalone
financial statements — “Use of estimates and
judgements — Provisions and contingent
liabilities” and Note 19 to the standalone
financial statements — “Commitments and
contingencies”

 

 

Our audit procedures included the following:

@ obtained management assessment on the litigation
along with the communications made to the Board
of Directors and regulators;

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 257

 
Other Information

The Company’s management and Board of Directors
are responsible for the other information. The other
information comprises the information included in
the Company’s annual report, but does not include
the financial statements and our auditors’ report
thereon.

Our opinion on the standalone financial statements
does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the standalone
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the
other information and, in doing so, consider whether
the other information is materially inconsistent

with the standalone financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

Management’s and Board of Directors’
Responsibility for the Standalone Financial
Statements

The Company’s management and Board of Directors
are responsible for the matters stated in Section
134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation

of these standalone financial statements that give a

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/loss
(including other comprehensive income), changes in
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance
with the accounting principles generally accepted

in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards
(Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. This
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions
of the Act for safequarding of the assets of the
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds
and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

and design, implementation and maintenance

of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to
the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and
are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements,
management and Board of Directors are responsible
for assessing the Company's ability to continue as

a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of
Directors either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.

The Board of Directors is also responsible for
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting
process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the standalone financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue

an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance Is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with SAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material

if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these
standalone financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we
exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We
also:

e Identify and assess the risks of material
misstatement of the standalone financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for

Standalone Financial Statements | 258
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.

@ = Obtain an understanding of internal control
relevant to the audit in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Company has adequate
internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements in place and the
operating effectiveness of such controls.

e Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of
accounting estimates and related disclosures in
the standalone financial statements made by the
Management and Board of Directors.

@ Conclude on the appropriateness of the
Management and Board of Directors use
of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained,
whether a material uncertainty exists related to
events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

to draw attention in our auditor’s report to

the related disclosures in the standalone
financial statements or, if such disclosures

are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause
the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.

e Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
content of the standalone financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the
standalone financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner
that achieves fair presentation.

We communicate with those charged with
governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with
a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to
communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged
with governance, we determine those matters

that were of most significance in the audit of the
standalone financial statements of the current
period and are therefore the key audit matters.

We describe these matters in our auditors’ report
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report)
Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central
Government of India in terms of Section
143(11) of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A”
a statement on the matters specified in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent
applicable.

2. (A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act,
we report that:

(a) We have sought and obtained all the
information and explanations which to
the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of
our audit.

Standalone Financial Statements | 259
In our opinion, proper books of
account as required by law have been
kept by the Company so far as it
appears from our examination of those
books.

The Standalone Balance Sheet, the
Standalone Statement of Profit and
Loss (including other comprehensive
income), the Standalone Statement of
Changes in Equity and the Standalone
Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by
this Report are in agreement with the
books of account.

In our opinion, the aforesaid
standalone financial statements comply
with the Ind AS specified under
Section 133 of the Act.

On the basis of the written
representations received from the
directors as on 31 March 2021 taken
on record by the Board of Directors,
none of the directors is disqualified
as on 31 March 2021 from being
appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164(2) of the Act.

With respect to the adequacy of
the internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial

the operating effectiveness of such
controls, refer to our separate Report
in “Annexure B”.

(B) With respect to the other matters to

be included in the Auditors’ Report in
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our
opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to
us:

i. The Company has disclosed the impact
of pending litigations as at 31 March
2021 on its financial position in its
standalone financial statements - Refer
Note 19 to the standalone financial
statements;

i. The Company did not have any long-
term contracts including derivative
contracts for which there were any
material foreseeable losses;

ii. There has been no delay in
transferring amounts, required to be
transferred, to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund by the Company;
and

iv. The disclosures in the standalone
financial statements regarding holdings

notes during the period from

8 November 2016 to 30 December
2016 have not been made in these
standalone financial statements since
they do not pertain to the financial
year ended 31 March 2021.

(C) With respect to the matter to be included

in the Auditors’ Report under Section
197(16) of the Act:

In our opinion and according to the
information and explanations given to us,
the remuneration paid by the Company to
its directors during the current year is in
accordance with the provisions of

Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration
paid to any director is not in excess of the
limit laid down under Section 197 of the
Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has
not prescribed other details under Section
197(16) of the Act which are required to
be commented upon by us.

ForBSR&Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants

Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner

Bengaluru Membership No: 060154

as well as dealings in specified bank 12 April 2021 UDIN: 21060154AAAAAUS511

statements of the Company and

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 260
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’

report on the standalone financial statements

of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the
year ended 31 March 2021

(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our

report of even date)

(i)

(a)

The Company has maintained proper
records showing full particulars, including
quantitative details and situation of fixed
assets.

The Company has a regular programme
of physical verification of its fixed assets,
by which all fixed assets are verified ina
phased manner over a period of three
years. In our opinion, this periodicity of
physical verification is reasonable having
regard to the size of the Company and
the nature of its assets. Pursuant to the
programme, certain fixed assets were
physically verified during the year and no
material discrepancies were noticed on
such verification.

According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the title deeds of immovable

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(iii)

properties included in property, plant and
equipment are held in the name of the
Company.

In respect of immovable properties

taken on lease and disclosed as right-
of-use -assets in the standalone financial
statements, the lease agreements are in the
name of the Company.

The inventory has been physically verified by the
management during the year. In our opinion,
the frequency of such verification is reasonable.
The Company has maintained proper records

of inventory. The discrepancies noticed on
verification between the physical stock and the
book records were not material.

According to the information and explanations
given to us, the Company has not granted any
loans, secured or unsecured to companies,
firms, limited liability partnerships or other
parties covered in the register maintained
under Section 189 of the Act. Accordingly, the
provisions of clause 3(iii) (a), (b) and (c) of the
Order are not applicable to the Company.

In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, the Company

has complied with the provisions of Sections
185 and 186 of the Act, with respect to the

(vi)

(vii) (a)

loans given, investments made, guarantees and
securities given.

The Company has not accepted any deposits
from the public within the meaning of the
directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India,
provisions of Section 73 to 76 of the Act, any
other relevant provisions of the Act and the
relevant rules framed thereunder.

The Central Government has not prescribed the
maintenance of cost records under Section 148
of the Act for any of the services rendered by
the Company.

According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, amounts deducted/ accrued

in the books of account in respect of
undisputed statutory dues including
Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance,
Income-tax, Goods and Services tax,

duty of Customs, Cess and other material
statutory dues have generally been
regularly deposited during the year by the
Company with the appropriate authorities.

According to the information and

explanations given to us, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of Provident

Standalone Financial Statements | 261
fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Goods and Services tax,
duty of Customs, Cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears
as at 31 March 2021, for a period of more than six months from the date
they became payable.

(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no
dues of Income- tax or Sales tax or Service tax or Goods and Services tax
or duty of Customs or duty of Excise or Value added tax which have not
been deposited by the Company on account of disputes, except for the

following:

Name of the
Selene

The Income-
tax Act, 1961

The Central
Sales Tax Act,
1956 and
Value Added
Tax Act

 

 

Nature of
the Dues

Income-tax

Sales tax
and VAT

 

EWU
(% in crores)**

1,222

193

218

oo

 

Period

Assessment Year - 2007-
08, 2011-12, 2015-16

Assessment Year - 2006-07

Financial Year - 1994-1995,
2004-2005, 2007-2008,
2008-2009, 2009-2010,
2010-2011, 2011-2012,
2012-2013, 2013-2014,
2014-2015, 2015-2016
Financial Year-1990-1991,
2002-2003, 2003-2004,
2004-2005, 2005-2006,
2006-2007, 2011-2012,
2012-2013

 

Forum where
dispute is pending
Commissioner
of Income Tax
(Appeals)
Income-Tax
Appellate Tribunal

High Court

Tribunal

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

IN ETteme a datey
Statute

The Finance
Act, 1994

Goods and
Service Tax
Act

 

 

Nature of
the Dues

Service tax

GST

 

EWU
(% in crores)**

nN

uo

1

uo

*

21

nN

1

wo

 

Period

Financial Year - 1995-1996,
1997-1998, 2004-2005,
2005-2006, 2011-2012,
2016-17, 2017-18
Financial Year - 2008-2009,
2010-2011, 2011-2012,
2012-2013, 2013-2014,
2015-2016, 2016-2017
Financial Year - 1997-1998,
2005-2006, 2010-11,
2011-12, 2012-13,
2013-2014, 2014-2015,
2015-2016, 2016-2017
Financial Year - 2002-2003,
2003-2004, 2004-2005

Financial Year - 2006-2007,
2007 -2008, 2009-2010,
2010-2011, 2012-2013,
2013-2014, 2014-2015,
2015-2016, 2016-2017,
2017-2018

Financial Year — 2019-20,
2020-21

 

Forum where
dispute is pending
Assistant
Commissioner

Deputy
Commissioner

Joint
Commissioner

Commissioner
Appeals

Tribunal

Commissioner
Appeals

 

*Indicates amount less than %0.50 crore
**These amounts are net of amount paid/ adjusted under protest

%767 Crores

Standalone Financial Statements | 262

 
(vill) In our opinion and according to the information

(ix)

and explanations given to us, the Company

has not defaulted in the repayment of loans

or borrowings to banks. The Company did not
have any outstanding loans or borrowings from
financial institutions or Government and there
are no dues to debenture holders during the
year.

In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, the Company

did not raise any money by way of initial public
offer or further public offer (including debt
instruments) and term loans during the year.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(ix) of the Order is not
applicable to the Company.

To the best of our knowledge and according to
the information and explanations given to us,
no material fraud by the Company or on the
Company by its officers or employees has been
noticed or reported during the year.

In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us and based on
examination of the records of the Company,
the Company has paid/provided managerial
remuneration in accordance with the requisite
approvals mandated by the provisions of
Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(xii) According to the information and explanations

given to us, in our opinion, the Company Is not a

Nidhi Company as prescribed under

Section 406 of the Act. Accordingly, paragraph

3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company.

(xii) According to the information and explanations
given to us and based on our examination of
the records of the Company, all transactions
with the related parties are in compliance
with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where
applicable, and details of such transactions
have been disclosed in the standalone financial
statements as required by the applicable Indian
Accounting Standards.

(xiv) According to the information and explanations
given to us and based on our examination of

the records of the Company, the Company has

not made any preferential allotment or private

placement of shares or fully or partly convertible

debentures during the year. Accordingly,
paragraph 3(xiv) of the Order is not applicable
to the Company.

(xv) According to the information and explanations
given to us and based on our examination of
the records of the Company, the Company

has not entered into non-cash transactions

Bengaluru
12 April 2021

with directors or persons connected with him.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not
applicable to the Company.

(xvi) According to the information and explanations

given to us, the Company is not required to be
registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, paragraph
3(xvi) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company.

ForBSR&Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani

Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 21060154AAAAAU5511

Standalone Financial Statements | 263
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’
Report on the standalone financial statements
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for
the year ended 31 March 2021

Report on the internal financial controls with
reference to the aforesaid standalone financial
statements under Clause {i) of Sub-section 3 of
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013

(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section
of our report of even date)

Opinion

We have audited the internal financial controls with

reference to standalone financial statements of Tata
Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) as of
31 March 2021 in conjunction with our audit of the
standalone financial statements of the Company for
the year ended on that date.

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material
respects, adequate internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements and
such internal financial controls were operating
effectively as at 31 March 2021, based on the
internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements criteria established
by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the
“Guidance Note’).

Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial
Controls

The Company's management and the Board of
Directors are responsible for establishing and
maintaining internal financial controls based on
the internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements criteria established
by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note. These responsibilities include

the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence
to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of

its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, and the timely preparation of
reliable financial information, as required under the
Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as
“the Act”).

Auditors’ Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference
to standalone financial statements based on our

audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing,
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to

the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note
require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether adequate internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements were established and maintained and
whether such controls operated effectively in all
material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to

obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of

the internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements and their operating
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls
with reference to standalone financial statements
included obtaining an understanding of such internal
financial controls, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected
depend on the auditor's judgement, including the
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the standalone financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our

Standalone Financial Statements | 264
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements.

Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with
Reference to Standalone Financial Statements

A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of standalone financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
financial controls with reference to standalone
financial statements include those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

necessary to permit preparation of standalone
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the standalone financial statements.

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial
Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial
Statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal
financial controls with reference to standalone
financial statements, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also,

projections of any evaluation of the internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk
that the internal financial controls with reference

to standalone financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

ForBSR&Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani

Partner

Membership No: 060154

UDIN: 21060154AAAAAU5511

Bengaluru
12 April 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 265
Standalone Balance Sheet

 

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Capital work-in-progress
Right-of-use assets
Intangible assets
Financial assets
Investments
Trade receivables
Unbilled receivables
Loans
Other financial assets
Income tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)
Other assets

Total non-current assets

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Note

 

PCE 1a

(% crore)

PCE

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

9,821
861
5,876
362

2,405
55
260

2

645
1,501
3,160

1,273

26,221

 

9,835
781
6,048
239

2,189
74
324
2

624
2,020
2.219

1426

25,781

 

 

Current assets
Inventories
Financial assets
Investments
Trade receivables
Unbilled receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Other balances with banks
Loans
Other financial assets
Other assets
Total current assets
TOTAL ASSETS
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
Other equity

Total equity

Note

6(m)

 

Pe

(% crore)

PCE

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

28,324
25,222
5,399
1,112
2,030
10,486
1,363
9,217
83,160
109,381

370
74,424
74,794

 

25,686
28,660
4,763
3,852
972
7,270
1,448

6,538

79,194

1,04,975

375

73,993

74,368

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 266

 
Standalone Balance Sheet

 

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Unearned and deferred revenue
Employee benefit obligations
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Trade payables

Dues of small enterprises and micro
enterprises

Dues of creditors other than small
enterprises and micro enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Unearned and deferred revenue
Other liabilities
Provisions
Employee benefit obligations
Income tax liabilities (net)
Total current liabilities
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Note

6(h)

12
15

6(g)

 

(% crore)

PCE 1a PCE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
5,077 5.262
228 237
284 644
108 91
365 347
6,062 6,581
835 848
7,962 8,734
4,473 4,694
2,877 2.271
2,720 2,048
1,350 235
2,598 2,057
5,710 3,139
28,525 24,026
1,09,381 1,04,975

 

 

 

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached

For BS R& Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 267
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss

 

Note
Revenue from operations 10
Other income 11
TOTAL INCOME
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses 12
Cost of equipment and software licences 13(a)
Finance costs 14
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Other expenses 13(b}
TOTAL EXPENSES
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX
Exceptional item
Provision towards legal claim 19
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Tax expense
Current tax 15
Deferred tax 15
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently
to profit or loss
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans
Income tax on items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

ba -larel xl
March 31, 2021

135,963
5,400

1,41,363

69,046
1,230
537
3,053
25,377

99,243
42,120

1,218

40,902

10,300
(358)

9,942
30,960

(16)

 

crore)

Bla taret ta)
March 31, 2020

131,306
8,082

1,39,388

64,906
1,596
743
2,701
27,451

97,397
41,991

41,991

9,012
(281)

8,731
33,260

(409)

86

 

 

Items that will be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Net change in fair values of investments other
than equity shares carried at fair value through
oc
Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges
Net change in time value of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges
Income tax on items that will be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (2)
Weighted average number of equity shares

Note

16

 

Year ended

March 31, 2021

51

14
53

(32)

73

31,033

82.78
374,01,10,733

 

(2 crore}
Blatt)

March 31, 2020

958

(94)

(62)

(315)
174
33,434

88.64
375,23,84,706

 

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached
For BS R& Co. LLP

Chartered Accountants

Firm's registration no:

101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner CFO
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

V Ramakrishnan

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

COO and Executive Director

Rajendra Moholkar
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 268

 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL

 

(® crore)

 

Balance as at April 1, 2019 Changes in equity share capital during the year Balance as at March 31, 2020
375 - 375

 

(% crore)

 

Balance as at April 1, 2020 Changes in equity share capital during Balance as at March 31, 2021
375 (5) 370

 

1Refer note 6(m).

B. OTHER EQUITY

 

 

 

 

(® crore)
Reserves and surplus Pee mu mel uu. Mei y Total Equity
Capital Capitalredemption Special Economic Zone —_ Retained Yeo ts Cash flow hedging reserve
oa a oo aC TOTS aa CTL revaluation Intrinsic value Time value
ac)
Balance as at April 1, 2019 - 8 994 77,159 258 134 (30) 78,523
Transition impact of Ind AS 116, net of tax - - - (330) - - - (330)
Restated balance as at April 1, 2019 - 8 994 76,829 258 134 (30) 78,193
Profit for the year = = = 33,260 = = = 33,260
Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - (323) 624 (89) (38) 174
Total comprehensive income - - - 32,937 624 (89) (38) 33,434
Dividend (including tax on dividend of - - - (37.634) - - - (37.634)
5.738 crore)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - 2.947 (2.947) - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - (2347) 2,347 - - - -
re-investment reserve
Balance as at March 31, 2020 - 8 1,594 71,532 882 45 (68) 73,993

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 269
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

 

 

 

 

(® crore)
Reserves and surplus Pee mu mel uu. Mei y Total Equity
Capital Capitalredemption Special Economic Zone —_ Retained Yeo ts Cash flow hedging reserve
Tac i Teta.) ToT a CYL eet ated) Intrinsic value Time value
Ua}
Balance as at April 1, 2020 - 8 1,594 71,532 882 45 (68) 73,993
Profit for the year = = = 30,960 = = = 30,960
Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - (13) 34 11 Al 73
Total comprehensive income - - - 30,947 34 11 41 31,033
Dividend = = = (10,850) = = = (10,850)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares! - - - (31) - - - (31)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares? - - - (3.726) - - - (3.726)
Buy-back of equity shares? - 5 - (16,000) - - - (15,995)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - 5,058 (5,058) - - - -
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - (4.114) 4.114 - - - -
re-investment reserve
Balance as at March 31, 2021 - 13 2,538 70,928 916 56 (27) 74,424

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Represents values less than 70.50 crore.
1Refer Note 6(m).

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 270
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

 

Nature and purpose of reserves

Capital reserve

The Company recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or
cancellation of the Company's own equity instruments to capital reserve.

Capital redemption reserve

As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when

company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium.

Asum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased Is transferred
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the
provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve

The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is created out of the
profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of section

1OAA(1)(ii) of the Income -tax Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the
Company for acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per the
terms of section LOAA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Retained earnings

This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Company
as on the balance sheet date.

Investment revaluation reserve

This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on the
revaluation of equity and debt instruments on the balance sheet date
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The reserves
accumulated will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.

Cash flow hedging reserve

The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative effective portion
of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of designated portion of
hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses
will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the
underlying hedged transaction occurs.

 

As per our report of even date attached
ForBS R& Co. LLP

Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

For and on behalf of the Board
Rajesh Gopinathan N Ganapathy Subramaniam

CEO and Managing Director COO and Executive Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 271
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year

Adjustments to reconcile profit and loss to net
cash provided by operating activities

Depreciation and amortisation expense

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for
doubtful trade receivables and advances (net)

Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)

Tax expense

Net gain on lease modification

Unrealised foreign exchange gain

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment

Net gain on investments

Interest income

Dividend income (Including exchange impact)
Finance costs

Realised foreign exchange gain on proceeds from
liquidation of wholly owned subsidiary (Refer note
6(a))

Operating profit before working capital changes
Net change in

Inventories

Trade receivables

Unbilled receivables

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Year ended

(% crore)
Bele cate(=re)

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

30,960

3,053
185

1,218
9.942
(89)
(20)
(19)

(193)
(2,383)
(2.211)

537
(5)

40,975

(3)
3.282
(572)

 

33,260

(130)
(50)

(197)
(3,197)
(3,995)

743

37,994

5
(4,736)
(311)

 

 

Loans and other financial assets

Other assets

Trade payables

Unearned and deferred revenue

Other financial liabilities

Other liabilities and provisions

Cash generated from operations

Taxes paid (net of refunds}

Net cash generated from operating activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Bank deposits placed

Inter-corporate deposits placed

Purchase of investments

Payment for purchase of property, plant and
equipment

Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-
use assets

Payment for purchase of intangible assets
Payment towards subscription of shares in wholly
owned subsidiary (Refer note 6(a)}

Proceeds from bank deposits

Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of
investments

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment

 

(® crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
(54) (72)
(2.432) (3.072)
(771) 1,042
246 449
(171) 1,183
1,127 487
41,627 32,969
(7,805) (6,366)
33,822 26,603
(5.678) (6.999)
(20,139) (13.694)
(51,822) (77,191)
(2.071) (1,951)
(101) (519)
(242) (172)
(224) a
4.617 11,612
16,892 13,400
49,333 80,865
31 130

 

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 272

 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

 

Proceeds from liquidation of wholly owned
subsidiary (Refer note 6(a))
Interest received
Dividend received from subsidiaries
Net cash generated from / (used in) investing
activities
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
Interest paid

Dividend paid (including tax on dividend in previous
year)

Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note
6(m))

Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(m))
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(m))

Net cash used in financing activities

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
year

Exchange difference on translation of foreign
currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
(Refer note 6(c))

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Year ended

(% crore)
Bele cate(=re)

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

12

2,605
2.211
(4,576)

(879)
(537)
(10,850)

(160)
160
(31)

(3.726)
(16,000)
(32,023)
(2,777)
3,852

37

1,112

 

3,353
3.995
12,829

(668)
(743)
(37.634)

(39,045)

387
3,327

138

3,852

 

 

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

As per our report of even date attached

For BS R& Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 273
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

1)

2)

3)

Corporate information

Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS Limited” or “the
Company”) provides IT services, consulting and business solutions and
has been partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their
transformation journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services
and solutions. This is delivered through its unique Location-Independent
Agile delivery model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software
development.

The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in
India. The address of its corporate office is TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort,
Mumbai - 400001. As at March 31, 2021, Tata Sons Private Limited, the
holding company owned 72.16% of the Company's equity share capital.

The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial statements for the
year ended March 31, 2021 and authorised for issue on April 12, 2021.

Statement of compliance

These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) as prescribed under
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian
Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to time.

Basis of preparation

These standalone financial statements have been prepared on historical cost
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined benefit plans which
are measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration
given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities
have been classified as current and non-current as per the Company’s normal
operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and
time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash
and cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the
Company has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.

The statement of cash flows have been prepared under indirect method,
whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts

or payments and items of income or expense associated with investing or
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing
activities of the Company are segregated. The Company considers all highly
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.

These standalone financial statements have been prepared in Indian Rupee

(8) which is the functional currency of the Company. Foreign currency
transactions are recorded at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the
transaction. Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities

are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date

and exchange gains and losses arising on settlement and restatement are
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign currencies are
not retranslated.

The significant accounting policies used in preparation of the standalone
financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.

Standalone Financial Statements | 274
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
4) Use of estimates and judgements

The preparation of the standalone financial statements in conformity with
the recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS requires management
of the Company to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent liabilities as at the
date of the standalone financial statements and the reported amounts of
income and expense for the periods presented.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the
estimates are revised and future periods are affected.

The Company uses the following critical accounting estimates in preparation
of its standalone financial statements:

(a) Revenue recognition

Revenue for fixed-price contract is recognised using percentage -of-
completion method. The Company uses judgement to estimate the future
cost-to-completion of the contracts which is used to determine degree
of completion of the performance obligation.

(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment

The Company reviews the useful life of property, plant and equipment at
the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change
in depreciation expense in future periods.

(c) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries

The Company reviews its carrying value of investments carried at cost
(net of impairment, if any) annually, or more frequently when there

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(4)

(e)

(f)

is indication for impairment. If the recoverable amount Is less than its
carrying amount, the impairment loss is accounted for in the statement of
profit and loss.

Fair value measurement of financial instruments

When the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in
the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including
the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are taken
from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements
include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and
volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the
reported fair value of financial instruments.

Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets

The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant
rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, allowances and
disallowances which is exercised while determining the provision for
income tax. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it
is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be utilised.
Accordingly, the Company exercises its judgement to reassess the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting
period.

Provisions and contingent liabilities

The Company estimates the provisions that have present obligations as
a result of past events and it is probable that outflow of resources will be

Standalone Financial Statements | 275
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(g)

(h)

required to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the
end of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best
estimates.

The Company uses significant judgements to disclose contingent
liabilities. Contingent liabilities are disclosed when there is a possible
obligation arising from past events, the existence of which will be
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more
uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Company
or a present obligation that arises from past events where it is either

not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle

the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made.
Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the standalone
financial statements.

Employee benefits

The accounting of employee benefit plans in the nature of defined benefit
requires the Company to use assumptions. These assumptions have been
explained under employee benefits note.

Leases

The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as
per the requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease requires
significant judgement. The Company uses significant judgement in
assessing the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the
applicable discount rate.

The Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period
of alease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend the

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

lease if the Company ts reasonably certain to exercise that option; and
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Company is
reasonably certain not to exercise that option. In assessing whether the
Company is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease,
or not to exercise an option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant
facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the
Company to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise
the option to terminate the lease. The Company revises the lease term if
there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.

The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate
specific to the lease being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with
similar characteristics.

Impact of COVID-19 (pandemic)

The Company has taken into account all the possible impacts of
COVID-19 in preparation of these standalone financial statements,
including but not limited to its assessment of, liquidity and going concern
assumption, recoverable values of its financial and non-financial assets,
impact on revenue recognition owing to changes in cost budgets of
fixed price contracts, impact on leases and impact on effectiveness of its
hedges. The Company has carried out this assessment based on available
internal and external sources of information upto the date of approval
of these standalone financial statements and believes that the impact of
COVID-19 is not material to these financial statements and expects to
recover the carrying amount of its assets. The impact of COVID-19 on
the standalone financial statements may differ from that estimated as at
the date of approval of these standalone financial statements owing to
the nature and duration of COVID-19.

Standalone Financial Statements | 276
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

5)

Recent pronouncements

On March 24, 2021, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) through

a notification, amended Schedule Ill of the Companies Act, 2013. The
amendments revise Division I, Il and Ill of Schedule Ill and are applicable

from April 1, 2021. Key amendments relating to Division Il which relate to
companies whose financial statements are required to comply with Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 are:

Balance Sheet:

e Lease liabilities should be separately disclosed under the head ‘financial
liabilities’, duly distinguished as current or non-current.

e = Certain additional disclosures in the statement of changes in equity such
as changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors and restated
balances at the beginning of the current reporting period.

e = Specified format for disclosure of shareholding of promoters.

e = Specified format for ageing schedule of trade receivables, trade payables,
capital work-in-progress and intangible asset under development.

e — Ifa company has not used funds for the specific purpose for which it was
borrowed from banks and financial institutions, then disclosure of details
of where it has been used.

e = Specific disclosure under ‘additional regulatory requirement’ such as
compliance with approved schemes of arrangements, compliance with
number of layers of companies, title deeds of immovable property not
held in name of company, loans and advances to promoters, directors,
key managerial personnel (KMP) and related parties, details of benami
property held etc.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Statement of profit and loss:

e = Additional disclosures relating to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),
undisclosed income and crypto or virtual currency specified under the
head ‘additional information’ in the notes forming part of the standalone
financial statements.

The amendments are extensive and the Company will evaluate the same to
give effect to them as required by law.

Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes

a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and
liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value measured on initial
recognition of financial asset or financial liability.

The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset
and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the
Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.

Cash and cash equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid financial instruments, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk
of change in value and having original maturities of three months or less from
the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist
of balances with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.

Standalone Financial Statements | 277
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Financial assets at amortised cost

Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost if these financial
assets are held within a business whose objective is to hold these assets to
collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial assets
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income

Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective Is
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
and selling financial assets.

The Company has made an irrevocable election to present subsequent
changes in the fair value of equity investments not held for trading in other
comprehensive income.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive
income on initial recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable to the
acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.

Investment in subsidiaries

Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less impairment loss, if any.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.

Equity instruments

An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual interest in the assets
of the company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued
by the Company are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue
cost.

Derivative accounting
e Instruments in hedging relationship

The Company designates certain foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign
exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

The Company uses hedging instruments that are governed by the policies
of the Company which are approved by the Board of Directors. The
policies provide written principles on the use of such financial derivatives
consistent with the risk management strategy of the Company.

The hedge instruments are designated and documented as hedges at the
inception of the contract. The Company determines the existence of an
economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item
based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the risk associated
with the exposure being hedged is assessed and measured at inception

Standalone Financial Statements | 278
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

and on an ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer
expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in
other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in
the statement of profit and loss.

The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated
hedging instrument is recognised in the other comprehensive income and
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.

The Company separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option
and designates as hedging instruments only the change in intrinsic value
of the option. The change in fair value of the time value and intrinsic
value of an option is recognised in the statement of other comprehensive
income and accounted as a separate component of equity. Such amounts
are reclassified into the statement of profit and loss when the related
hedged items affect profit and loss.

Hedge accounting Is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires
or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated
in equity till that time remains and is recognised in statement of profit and
loss when the forecasted transaction ultimately affects the profit and loss.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in statement of profit and loss
when the hedge becomes ineffective.

Instruments not in hedging relationship

The Company enters into contracts that are effective as hedges from an
economic perspective, but they do not qualify for hedge accounting. The
change in the fair value of such instrument is recognised in statement of
profit and loss.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)

The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial asset
or a group of financial assets is impaired.

Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be measured through a loss
allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract
assets and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing
transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful trade receivables, the
Company has used a practical expedient by computing the expected credit
loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The provision
matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for
forward looking information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on
the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance rates used in the
provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are
measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at
an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the
financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.

Standalone Financial Statements | 279
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

{a) Investments
Investments consist of the following:
Investments — Non-current

(% crore)

PX Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Investment in subsidiaries

Fully paid equity shares (unquoted}
Investments designated at fair value through
ocl

Fully paid equity shares (unquoted}

Taj Air Limited

Less: Impairment in value of investments

Investments — Current

(% crore)

PEL Pe

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Investments carried at fair value through
profit or loss

Mutual fund units (quoted)

Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Investments carried at amortised cost
Commercial papers (quoted)

28,324 25,686

Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility

amounting to 71,650 crore and NIL as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:

(% crore)
PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Aggregate value of quoted investments

Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net
of impairment)

Aggregate market value of quoted investments

 

Aggregate value of impairment of investments

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:

(% crore)

PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Commercial Paper 136 ||

Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:

 

 

 

 

( crore)
InNumbers | Currency | Face value Investment in Bry Bory
per share subsidiaries March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)
212,27,83,424| UYU 1] TCS Iberoamerica SA 461 461
15,75,300) INR 10] APTOnline Limited a 2
1,300 EUR - | Tata Consultancy 1 1
Services Belgium
66,000 EUR 1,000 | Tata Consultancy 403 403

Services Netherlands BY

 

 

 

 

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 280
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

InNumbers | Currency | Face value Investment in
per share subsidiaries
1,000 SEK 100 | Tata Consultancy
Services Sverige AB
1} EUR - | Tata Consultancy
Services Deutschland
GmbH
20,000 USD 10| Tata America
International
Corporation
75,82,820 SGD 1] Tata Consultancy
Services Asia Pacific
Pte Ltd.
3,72,58815| AUD 1|TCS FNS Pty Limited
1000001) GBP 1| Diligenta Limited
1,000 USD - | Tata Consultancy
Services Canada Inc.*
100 CAD 70,653.61 | Tata Consultancy
Services Canada Inc.
51,006,000 INR 10 | C-Edge Technologies
Limited
890,000 INR 10) MP Online Limited
1,40,00,000 ZAR 1] Tata Consultancy
Services (Africa) (PTY)
Ltd.
18,89,005 INR 10 | MahaOnline Limited
-| QAR - | Tata Consultancy
Services Qatar S.S.C.

 

As at

March 31, 2021

453

212
429

31

 

( crore)
As at
March 31, 2020

 

453

19

212
429

31

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

( crore)
InNumbers | Currency | Face value Investment in Bry Bory
per share subsidiaries March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
16,00,01,000) USD 0.01) CMC Americas, Inc? - 8
10,00,000) INR 100) TCS e-Serve 1¢ 1¢
International Limited
100,500} GBP 0.00001 | W12 Studios Limited 66 66
2,50,00,000 EUR 1] Tata Consultancy 224 -
Services Ireland Limited
10,00,000) INR 10 | TCS Foundation - -
2,405 2,189
( crore)
InNumbers | Currency | Face value | Equity instruments Bry Bory
aCe ecm March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
through OCI
Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)
1,90,00,000 INR 10 | Taj Air Limited 19 19
Less : Impairment in (19) (19)

value of investments

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Notes:

1. CMC Americas, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in

USA, was liquidated w.e.f. December 16, 2020.

2. The Company incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services

Ireland Limited in Ireland on December 2, 2020.

Standalone Financial Statements | 281
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(b)

The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through

OC is as follows:

Balance at the beginning of the year

Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of
investments other than equities carried at fair
value through other comprehensive income
Deferred tax relating to net gain / (loss) arising
on revaluation of investments other than
equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income

Net cumulative (gain) / loss reclassified

to statement of profit and loss on sale of
investments other than equities carried at fair
value through other comprehensive income
Deferred tax relating to net cumulative

(gain) / loss reclassified to statement of profit
and loss on sale of investments other than
equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income

Balance at the end of the year

Trade receivables

 

 

 

 

Trade receivables (unsecured) consist of the following:

Trade receivables - Non-current

Trade receivables
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
Considered good

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
882 258
51 972
(17) (340)
5 (14)
= 6
916 882
(% crore)

PCr
March 31, 2021
787

(732)
55

Pe
March 31, 2020
656
(582)
74

 

(c)

Trade receivables — Current

Trade receivables
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
Considered good
Trade receivables
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables

Credit impaired

PCr
March 31, 2021

25,361
(183)
25,178

211
(167)
44
25,222

(% crore)

Pe
March 31, 2020

28,822
(227)
28,595
194
(129)
65
28,660

 

Above balances of trade receivables include balances with related parties

(Refer note 21).

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:

Balances with banks
In current accounts
In deposit accounts
Cheques on hand*
Cash on hand*

Remittances in transit

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

PCr
March 31, 2021

(% crore)

Pe
March 31, 2020

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 282
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(d) Other balances with banks
Other balances with banks consist of the following:

(=
PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31,

Earmarked balances with banks

Short-term bank deposits

Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of
investments, margin money for derivative contracts and unclaimed dividends.

{e) Loans
Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
Loans — Non-current

(=
PCr Pe
March 31,2021 March 31,

Considered good

Loans and advances to employees

Loans — Current

i

EXE \4 CE \d

March 31,2021 March 31,

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits 10,291
Loans and advances to employees 195

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

crore)

2020

 

crore)

2020

 

crore)

2020

7,044
226

 

(% crore)
PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Credit impaired

Loans and advances to employees 15 14
Less: Allowance on loans and advances to (15) (14)
employees

10,486 7,270

 

Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate.

Other financial assets
Other financial assets consist of the following:
Other financial assets - Non-current

(% crore)
PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Security deposits 632 617
Others 13 7

 

645 624

Other financial assets — Current

(% crore)
PCr Pe
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Security deposits
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets
Interest receivable
Others

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 283
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(g)

(h)

Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises

(% crore)

As at March 31, 2020
Principal Interest Principal —__ Interest

Amount due to vendor = = Sd Sd
Amount paid beyond the appointed 39 = 140 2
date during the year
Interest due and payable for the year = = = =
Interest accrued and remaining = = a a
unpaid (includes interest disallowable
of NIL (March 31, 2020: NIL))

As at March 31, 2021

 

 

Dues to small enterprises and micro enterprises have been determined to the extent
such parties have been identified on the basis of information collected by the Company.

Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Other financial liabilities - Non-current

(% crore)
PCr Pe
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Capital creditors 3

Others

___228 ____234
228 237

Others include advance taxes paid of ¥226 crore and %226 crore as at March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the
Company) which, on refund by tax authorities is payable to the seller.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

(i)

Other financial liabilities - Current

(% crore)
PS a
March 31, 2020

ra
March 31, 2021

Accrued payroll

Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities
Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts

Others

 

Financial instruments by category
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021 is as
follows:
crore}
er a UC) ae
nue) cost Tee TNs)
tera iss IUNs) rT
etsy

eae) pear
Cs a ame ne TU
Ce eum 1
SEVP»

eae)
Tcl)

profit or
a furssout

 

Financial assets

 

 

 

Cash and cash equivalents = = = = 1112 1112
Bank deposits = = = = 1848 1848
Earmarked balances with banks = = = = 182 182
Investments {other than in subsidiary} 4068 24,120 - - 136 28,324
Trade receivables = = = = 25277 25277
Unbilled receivables = = = = 5659 5659
Loans a a a a 10,488 10,488
Other financial assets 2 2 163 332 1513 2,008
4,068 24,120 163 332 46,215 74,898

Financial liabilities
Trade payables = = = = 7,962 7,962
Lease liabilities = = = = 5912 5912
Other financial liabilities 2 2 2 90 4609 4701
- - 2 90 18,483 18,575

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of 710,291 crore, with original maturity period within 9 months.

Standalone Financial Statements | 284
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

 

 

 

 

The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2020 is as (j)
follows:
crore}
eee eee Prin Pie ae Ue RSs) Total
through through other instruments _instruments (een Cela}
Fforest. Tes TCs aT Wr
es isu relationship __ relationship
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2 2 2 2 3,852 3,852
Bank deposits 2 2 2 2 787 787
Earmarked balances with banks 2 2 2 2 185 185
Investments {other than in subsidiary} 1264 24,422 - - - 25,686
Trade receivables 2 2 2 2 28,734 28,734
Unbilled receivables 2 2 2 2 5,087 5,087
Loans 2 2 2 2 7,272 7,272
Other financial assets a a 146 279 1,647 2,072
1,264 24,422 146 279 |__47,564 | _73,675
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 2 2 2 2 8,734 8,734
Lease liabilities 2 2 2 2 6,110 6,110
Other financial liabilities a a 34 659 4.238 4,931
- - 34 659 19,082 19,775

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of 77,044 crore, with original maturity period
within 12 months.

Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled receivables,
loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2021 and 2020 approximate the fair value.
Difference between carrying amounts and fair values of bank deposits, earmarked
balances with banks, other financial assets and other financial liabilities subsequently
measured at amortised cost is not significant in each of the periods presented. Fair value
measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried at
amortised cost is 7136 crore and NIL as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Fair value hierarchy

The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are
used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and
consists of the following three levels:

e Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities.

e Level 2 — Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie. as prices)
or indirectly (ie. derived from prices).

e Level 3 — Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable
inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part using a valuation
model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from
observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are
they based on available market data.

The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value
measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Standalone Financial Statements | 285
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair

value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosure are required):

(% crore)
As at March 31, 2021 Levell Level2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets
Mutual fund units 4.068 = = 4.068
Equity shares = = = =
Government bonds and securities 23,670 = - | 23,670
Corporate bonds 450 = = 450
Commercial papers 136 = = 136
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative = A495 = A495
assets
28,324 495 - | 28,819
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative = 92 = 92
liabilities
: 92 : 92

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

{k)

(% crore)
As at March 31, 2020 Levell Level2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets
Mutual fund units 1,264 a a 1,264
Equity shares a a a a
Government bonds and securities 24,290 a - | 24,290
Corporate bonds 132 = = 132
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative a 425 a 425
assets
25,686 425 - | 26,111
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative a 693 a 693
liabilities
- 693 - 693

 

 

 

 

 

 

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity

The Company's revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given
the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in
Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations.

The Board of Directors have constituted a Risk Management Committee
(RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan of the
Company which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign
currency fluctuations. Under the guidance and framework provided by the
RMC, the Company uses various derivative instruments such as foreign
exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the
counter party is generally a bank.

Standalone Financial Statements | 286
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

   

 

 

The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash
designated as cash flow hedges: flow hedges is as follows:
(% crore)
Foreign currency As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2020 Year ended Year ended
No. of DN eyaierar]| elm Nome a Notional eel Uo CRE eer
contracts amountof (crore) contracts amountof  (® crore) Tavelaestom 7:1 UC Laem] OCR ns atom 1 Oc Maem LLL
contracts contracts Balance at the beginning of the year 45 (68} 134 (30}
(aman rer) (mal ron (Gain) / loss transferred to profit and (341) 530 (449) 513
US Dollar 63 1615 51 55 1,420 20 loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge
. transactions
Great Britain Pound 4 Bed 4 ee Sas 59 Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to 73 (125) 54 (38)
Euro 60 346 78 38 363 (31) profit and loss on occurrence of forecasted
Australian Dollar 38 206 16 26 192 48 hedge transactions
. Change in the fair value of effective portion 355 (477) 355 (565)
Canadian Dollar 23 114 2 19 104 16 of cash flow hedges
Deferred tax on fair value of effective (76) 113 (49) 52
portion of cash flow hedges
Balance at the end of the year 56 (27) 45 (68)

 

 

The Company has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging
relationship by way of foreign exchange forward, currency options and

futures contracts. As at March 31, 2021 and 2020, the notional amount

of outstanding contracts aggregated to 37,615 crore and 740,109 crore,
respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of
242 crore and net loss of %380 crore.

Exchange gain of 490 crore and loss of 7451 crore on foreign exchange
forward, currency options and futures contracts that do not qualify for hedge
accounting have been recognised in the standalone statement of profit and
loss for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 287
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

()

Net foreign exchange gains include loss of 7189 crore and %64 crore
transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively.

Net gain on derivative instruments of 730 crore recognised in cash flow
hedging reserve as at March 31, 2021, is expected to be transferred to

the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2022. The maximum period
over which the exposure to cash flow variability has been hedged is through
calendar year 2021.

Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on the Company’s other
comprehensive income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the
underlying foreign currencies:

(% crore)
CE \d ENE \d
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign (306) (407)
currencies
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign 1,906 1,261
currencies

Financial risk management

The Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely
impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk
management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and
liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors.
The focus of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability
of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the
financial performance of the Company.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Market risk

Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market
changes. The Company's exposure to market risk is primarily on account of
foreign currency exchange rate risk.

e = Foreign currency exchange rate risk

The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential
impact on the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive
income and equity, where any transaction references more than one
currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency of the Company.

Considering the countries and economic environment in which the
Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from
fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.

The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative
instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any movement
in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company
against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenue in
international business.

The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations
by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of
these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk
management policies.

The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the
net foreign exchange rate exposure and a simultaneous parallel foreign

Standalone Financial Statements | 288
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional
currency of the Company.

The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures
of the Company as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the
statements of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and
equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of
the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in
note 6(k).

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2021:

 

( crore)

GBP coves
Net financial assets 3,981 (9) 264 1,390
Net financial liabilities (3.053) (564) (608) (774)

 

10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the
Company with respect to various foreign currencies would result in
increase / decrease in the Company's profit before taxes by approximately
63 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021.

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2020:

 

(% crore)

GBP coves
Net financial assets 4,002 274 329 1,595
Net financial liabilities (7.097) (596) (475) (678)

 

10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the
Company with respect to various foreign currencies would result in
increase / decrease in the Company's profit before taxes by approximately
%265 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

e = Interest rate risk

The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing
investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly exposed to interest
rate risk.

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay
or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk
encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration

of creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled
by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals
for credit.

Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk
principally consist of trade receivables, unbilled receivables, loans, investments,
derivative financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and
other financial assets. Inter-corporate deposits of 10,291 crore are with

a financial institution having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating
agencies. Bank deposits include an amount of 71,848 crore held with one
Indian bank having high credit rating which is individually in excess of 10% or
more of the Company’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2021. None of the
other financial instruments of the Company result in material concentration of
credit risk.

e Exposure to credit risk

The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents
the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk
was %77,949 crore and 77,161 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,
respectively, being the total of the carrying amount of balances with
banks, bank deposits, investments excluding equity and preference
investments, trade receivables, unbilled receivables, loans, contract assets
and other financial assets.

Standalone Financial Statements | 289
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single
customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivable,

unbilled receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2021 and
March 31, 2020.

e Geographic concentration of credit risk

Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of
allowances), unbilled receivables and contract assets is as follows:

As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2020

Gross% Net% Gross% New

 

United States of America 48.67 49.97 47.95
India 15.32 13.27 14.45
United Kingdom 17.05 17.42 15.03

 

Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of

allowances), unbilled receivables and contract assets is allocated based on

the location of the customers.

The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for

the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was 7176 crore and

%125 crore, respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful

trade receivables is as follows:

(% crore)

PE Pr
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year
Change during the year

Bad debts written off

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial
obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management Is to maintain
sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per
requirements. The Company consistently generated sufficient cash flows
from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities
as and when they fall due.

The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of
significant financial liabilities as at:

 

(% crore)
March 31, 2021 DIUM ay Duein Duein3™ Dueafter Total
bt cca le ct: LI SOS (or LSM Cer
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables 7,962 - - - 7,962
Lease liabilities 1,239 1,157 2,590 3,098 8,084
Other financial liabilities 4381 - 228 - 4609
13,582 1,157 2,818 3,098| 20,655
Derivative financial liabilities 92 = = = 92

 

13,674; 1,157 2,818 3,098| 20,747

 

 

(% crore}
March 31, 2020 Due in Duein Duein3* Dueafter Total
1*year 2™year toSyear 5 year
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables 8,734 - - - 8,734
Lease liabilities 1,261 1,099 2,638 3,507 8,505
Other financial liabilities 4001 10 227 - 4238
13,996; 1,109 2,865 3,507| 21,477
Derivative financial liabilities 693 693

 

 

 

 

 

 

14,689; 1,109 2,865 3,507| 22,170

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 290

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(m) Equity instruments

The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital consist of
the following:

(% crore)
As at CE \d
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Authorised
460,05,00,000 equity shares of 71 each 460 460
(March 31, 2020: 460,05,00,000 equity shares
of @1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of 71 each 105 105

(March 31, 2020: 105,02,50,.000 preference
shares of 71 each)

565 565
Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
369,90,51,373 equity shares of 71 each 370 375
(March 31, 2020: 375,23,84,706 equity shares
of 21 each)

370 375

 

 

 

 

The Company's objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder
value, safequard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating
plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The funding
requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated.
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 7, 2020, approved a
proposal to buy-back upto 5,33,33,333 equity shares of the Company for

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

an aggregate amount not exceeding 716,000 crore, being 1.42% of the total
paid up equity share capital at 73,000 per equity share. The shareholders
approved the same on November 18, 2020, by way of a special resolution
through postal ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders.
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares out of the shares that
were tendered by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares
on January 6, 2021. Capital redemption reserve was created to the extent of
share capital extinguished (%5 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of
%16,031 crore (including $31 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back)
over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of %3,726 crore
were offset from retained earnings.

Il. Reconciliation of number of shares

As at March 31, 2021

As at March 31, 2020

 

 

Nr eetacels Amount Nn eXlacel Amount
Oarlacs (% crore) shares @ crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance 375,23,84,706 375 375,23,84,706 375
Shares extinguished on (5,33,33,333) (5) - -
buy-back
Closing balance 369,90,51,373 370 375,23,84,706 375

 

 

Il. Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares

The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of 71
each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held and carry
a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors

is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual
General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.

Standalone Financial Statements | 291
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive
the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential
amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.

Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates

(® crore}
EOE EOE
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Equity shares
Holding company
266,91,25,829 equity shares (March 31, 2020: 267 270
270,24,50,947 equity shares) are held by Tata
Sons Private Limited
Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company
7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2020: 7,220 - -
equity shares} are held by Tata Industries Limited*
10,23,685 equity shares (March 31, 2020: - -
10,36,269 equity shares} are held by Tata
Investment Corporation Limited*
46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2020: 46,798 - -
equity shares} are held by Tata Steel Limited*
766 equity shares (March 31, 2020: 766 equity S =
shares} are held by The Tata Power Company
Limited*
267 270

 

 

 

 

*Equity shares having value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the
aggregate shares in the Company

PE Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the Holding 266,91.25,829 | 270,24,50.947
company

% of shareholding 72.16% 72.02%

 

Equity shares movement during the 5 years preceding March 31, 2021
e = Equity shares issued as bonus

The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up
bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained
earnings amounting to %86 crore and capital redemption reserve
amounting to %106 crore in three month period ended June 30,
2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the
consent of shareholders through postal ballot.

e = Equity shares extinguished on buy-back

The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 1.42% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 73,000 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on January 6, 2021.

The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 72,100 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on September 26, 2018.

Standalone Financial Statements | 292
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

7)

The Company bought back 5,61,40,350 equity shares for an
aggregate amount of 716,000 crore being 2.85% of the total paid
up equity share capital at 72,850 per equity share. The equity shares
bought back were extinguished on June 7, 2017.

Leases

A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to
control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.

Company as a lessee

The Company accounts for each lease component within the contract as a
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates
the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of
the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate
standalone price of the non-lease components.

The Company recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the
underlying asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. The
cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be
incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or
restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use
assets Is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation,
accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement
of the lease liability. The right-of-use assets is depreciated using the straight-
line method from the commencement date over the shorter of lease term

or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-

use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and
equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever there Is

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment
loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

The Company measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease
payments that are not paid at the commencement date of the lease. The lease
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that
rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the
Company uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar
characteristics, the Company, on a lease by lease basis, may adopt either the
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing
rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed
payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price
of a purchase option where the Company is reasonably certain to exercise
that option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease
term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease. The lease
liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed
lease payments. The company recognises the amount of the re-measurement
of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset
and statement of profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification.
Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero

and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability,

the Company recognises any remaining amount of the re-measurement in
statement of profit and loss.

The Company has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases
to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments
associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.

Standalone Financial Statements | 293
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

 

Company as a lessor (% crore)
At the inception of the lease the Company classifies each of its leases as Additions Net carrying
either an operating lease or a finance lease. The Company recognises lease for the year ended EERE
payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis March 31, 2020 March 31, 2020
over the lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income Is recognised Leasehold land ATA 690

over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate
of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Company is
an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the Leasehold improvement = 20
sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with
reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with
reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short term lease to which
the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the 2,163 6,048
sub-lease as an operating lease. — —

Buildings 1,689 5,336

Computer equipment 2 2

Vehicles a 2

 

If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company Depreciation on right-of-use assets Is as follows:
applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the
consideration in the contract.

 

 

 

Berle erarelaxe| Bele cate(=re)

The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows: March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
(@ crore) Leasehold land 8 4
Xe feliarol ar Net carrying Buildings 995 837

for the year ended Ele aE 14 .
March 31,2021 March 31, 2021 Leasehold improvement 3 5
Leasehold land - 682 Computer equipment 3 -
Buildings 840 5,083 Software licences 1 a
Leasehold improvement 6 6 Vehicles 1 1
Computer equipment 81 79 4,011 gaz
Software licences 26 25 ——— ———
Vehicles 1 1 Interest on lease liabilities is 7450 crore and 7416 crore for the years ended March 31,
954 5,876 2021 and 2020, respectively.

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 294
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

8)

The Company incurred 7189 crore and %190 crore for the years ended March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases
of low-value assets.

The total cash outflow for leases is 71,619 crore and 71,793 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, including cash outflow for short-term and
low-value leases.

The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the
measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for such
extension periods is 7660 crore and %457 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.

Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertains for buildings taken on lease
to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Company does not have any lease
restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.

Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
(a) Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase
price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its
working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation
(other than freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.

Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a
straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value over their
estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated
useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for ona
prospective basis.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:

 

BTR Betti Oe

Buildings 20 years

Leasehold improvements Lease term

Plant and equipment 10 years

Computer equipment 4 years

Vehicles A years

Office equipment 5 years

Electrical installations 4-10 years

Furniture and fixtures 5 years

 

Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until
construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its
intended use.

Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for
recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the
value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset
does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the
cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss.

Standalone Financial Statements | 295
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Freehold —_ Buildings Leasehold PETAL Cl A aCry Office retate-1| Furniture
land improvements __ equipment equipment equipment installations _and fixtures

Cost as at April 1, 2020

Additions = 71 53 51 1,610 2 77 28 29 1,921
Disposals = (11) (60) = (102) (5) (38) (27) (30) (273)
Cost as at March 31, 2021 323 7,688 1,817 718 8,781 36 2,302 1,883 1,509 25,057
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2020 - (2,518) (1,042) (224) (5,536) (32) (1,868) (1,152) (1,202) (13,574)
Depreciation = (387) (126) (69) (909) (4) (170) (143) (115) (1,923)
Disposals = 8 60 = 96 BI 37 25 30 261
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2021 - (2,897) (1,108) (293) (6,349) (31) (2,001) (1,270) (1,287) (15,236)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021 323 4,791 709 425 2,432 5 301 613 222 9,821
Capital work-in- progress* 861
Total 10,682

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LeiesX-laro) Mian =U Tae Leasehold Plant and Computer Vehicles Electrical Furniture
land improvements equipment equipment i installations _and fixtures
Cost as at April 1, 2019 323 7,348 1,820 539 6,273 36 2,164 1,802 1,420 21,725
Transition impact of Ind AS 116 - - (61) - - - - - - (61)
Restated cost as at April 1, 2019 323 7,348 1,759 539 6,273 36 2,164 1,802 1,420 21,664
Additions s 287 188 128 1,190 i) 174 98 130 2,200
Disposals 2 (7) (123) = (190} (2) (75) (18) (40) (455)
Cost as at March 31, 2020 323 7,628 1,824 667 7,273 39 2,263 1,882 1,510 23,409
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2019 - (2,150) (1,010) (166) (4,975) (29) (1,740) (1,029) (1,104) (12,203)
Transition impact of Ind AS 116 = = 36 = = = = = = 36
Restated accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2019 - (2,150) (974) (166) (4,975) (29) (1,740) (1,029) (1,104) (12,167)
Depreciation s (374) (115} (58) (750) (5} (203} (140} (137} (1,782)
Disposals = 6 47 = 189 2 75 17 39 375
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2020 - (2,518) (1,042) (224) (5,536) (32) (1,868) (1,152) (1,202) (13,574)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020 323 5,110 782 443 1,737 7 395 730 308 9,835
Capital work-in- progress* 781
Total 10,616

 

*%2,200 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2020.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 296
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(b) Intangible assets

Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost as at the date of
acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated
impairment, if any.

Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software
licences which are amortised over licence period which equates the
economic useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight line basis
over the period of its economic useful life.

Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not

be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount

(ie. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is
determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not
generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash
generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss.

Intangible assets consist of the following:

tele e Ute tal ecursats)
Ee est USAIN Ted iN IRM saccd

Cost as at April 1, 2020

Additions

Disposals / Derecognised

Cost as at March 31, 2021

Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2020
Amortisation

Disposals / Derecognised

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2021
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

( crore)
Relaee Ute tal ccarsats)
ETRE Rea EIRCM sued

Cost as at April 1, 2019

Additions

Cost as at March 31, 2020

Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2019
Amortisation

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2020
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020

 

The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2021 is as
follows:

( crore)
Year ending March 31, iakelmacrs14(o) I>. Xa <3
2022
2023
2024
2025

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 297
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

{c) Other assets
Other assets consist of the following:

Other assets — Non-current

Considered good
Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
Contract fulfillment costs
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Others

Advances to related parties, considered
good, comprise:

Voltas Limited

Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd*
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation

Limited*

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

PCr

(% crore)

Pe

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

120
527
137
65
33
391

1,273

30

 

145
737

50
36

1,426

33

 

 

Other assets — Current

Considered good
Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
Prepaid rent

Contract fulfillment costs
Advance to suppliers
Advance to related parties
Indirect taxes recoverable
Others

Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers
Indirect taxes recoverable
Other advances

Less: Allowance on doubtful assets

Advance to related parties, considered
good comprise:

The Titan Company Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company
Limited

Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited
Tata Sons Private Limited

 

PCr

(% crore)
Pe

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

2,931
4.260
6

534
83

10
1,172
221

(5)

9,217

 

3,341
1,381
4
396
75

11
1,131
199

(8)

6,538

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 298

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

(4)

Non-current — Others includes advance of 7369 crore and %271 crore
towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2021
and 2020, respectively.

Contract fulfillment costs of 358 crore and %406 crore for the years
ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, have been amortised
in the standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the
changes in contract asset.

Inventories

Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components,
b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost
of raw materials, sub-assemblies and components is determined ona
weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by
the Company includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of
manufacturing overheads.

Inventories consist of the following:

(% crore)

PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and
components

Finished goods and work-in-progress*

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

{e) Other liabilities

(f)

Other liabilities consist of the following:
Other liabilities — Current

Advance received from customers
Indirect taxes payable and other statutory
liabilities

Operating lease liabilities

Others

Provisions
Provisions consist of the following:
Provisions — Current

Provision towards legal claim
(Refer note 19)

Provision for foreseeable loss

Other provisions

 

 

(% crore)

PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

(% crore)

PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Standalone Financial Statements | 299
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

9)

Other equity
Other equity consist of the following:

Capital reserve*
Capital redemption reserve
Opening balance

Transfer from retained earnings

Special Economic Zone re-investment
reserve

Opening balance
Transfer from retained earnings

Transfer to retained earnings

Retained earnings
Opening balance
Transition impact of Ind AS 116
Profit for the year

Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares?
Tax on buy-back of equity shares?
Buy-back of equity shares?

Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

PE
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

13

1,594
5,058

(4,114)

2,538
71,532

30.960
(13)

(31)
(3.726)
(15,995)
4.114

86,841

 

(% crore)

Pe

994
2,947

(2,347)

1,594

77,159
(330)
33,260
(323)

2,347

1,12,113

 

 

Less: Appropriations
Dividend on equity shares
Tax on dividend
Transfer to capital redemption reserve?

Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

Investment revaluation reserve
Opening balance
Change during the year (net)

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer Note 6(k))
Opening balance

Change during the year (net)

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

1Refer Note 6(m).

 

PCE 1a

(% crore)
Pe

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

10,850
5
5,058

70,928

882
34
916

(23)
52

29
74,424

 

31,896
5,738

2,947

71,532

258
624
882

104

(127)

(23)

73,993

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 300

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

10) Revenue recognition

The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting
and business solutions. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and
solutions.

Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the
Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.

e Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on
output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of
transactions processed, etc.

e Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services
contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide services is
recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over
the period of performance.

e = In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using
percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of accounting
with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of
the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the
revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.

e Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and
manufactured systems and third party software is recognised upfront
at the point in time when the system / software Is delivered to the
customer. In cases where implementation and / or customisation services
rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and
revenue Is recognised over time on a POC method.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

e Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at
the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.

e = The solutions offered by the Company may include supply of third-party
equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for supply of such third
party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether
the Company is acting as the principal or as an agent of the customer.
The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration
when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it
is acting as an agent.

Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the
consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level credits,
performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in
the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from
customers.

The Company's contracts with customers could include promises to transfer
multiple products and services to a customer. The Company assesses the
products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance
obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct performance obligation
involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the
customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.

Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the
contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each distinct performance
obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer
consideration or variable consideration with elements such as volume
discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time
value of money if the contract includes a significant financing component. Any
consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price,

Standalone Financial Statements | 301
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

unless it is a payment for a distinct product or service from the customer. The
estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction price
only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed

at the end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the elements

of variable considerations to all the performance obligations of the contract
unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct
performance obligations.

The Company exercises judgement in determining whether the performance
obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Company
considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services

are rendered or who controls the asset as it is being created or existence

of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use

of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the
customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.

Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at
arm’s length.

Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain
software licence costs which meet the criteria for capitalisation. Such costs
are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence whichever is
less. The assessment of this criteria requires the application of judgement, in
particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used
to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to
be recovered.

Contract assets are recognised when there is excess of revenue earned over
billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified as unbilled receivables (only
act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash,
and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there
is billings in excess of revenues.

The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance
based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are
payable within contractually agreed credit period.

In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract
provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a
contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.

Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract
specification and requirements. The Company reviews modification to contract
in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price
could be allocated to a new performance obligation, or transaction price of an
existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.

The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature
of services, industry verticals and geography.

Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021 = March 31, 2020

Consultancy services 134,585 1,.29,565
Sale of equipment and software licences 1,378 1,741
1,35,963 1,31,306

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 302
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Banking, Financial Services and Insurance 51,189 A7 811
Manufacturing 11,747 12,161
Retail and Consumer Business 22,219 22,882
Communication, Media and Technology 24,243 23,132
Others 26,565 25,320

1,35,963 1,31,306

 

Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Americas 76,798 74,882
Europe 38.277 35,999
India 8,102 8,716
Others 12,786 11,709

 

1,35,963 1,31,306

Geographical revenue Is allocated based on the location of the customers.
Information about major customers

No single customer represents 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue
during the years ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020.

While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be
recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially) satisfied performance

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise
those revenues, the Company has applied the practical expedient in

Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Company has not disclosed the aggregate
transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance
obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds
to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material,
outcome based and event based contracts.

Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to
variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of
contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in
currency rates, tax laws etc). The aggregate value of transaction price allocated
to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is = 91,094 crore
out of which 53.98% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year
and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is
excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Changes in contract assets are as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year

Invoices raised that were included in the
contract assets balance at the beginning of the
year

Increase due to revenue recognised during the
year, excluding amounts billed during the year

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 303
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Balance at the beginning of the year

Revenue recognised that was included in the
contract liability balance at the beginning of the
year

Increase due to invoicing during the year,
excluding amounts recognised as revenue
during the year

Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Contracted price 1,38,292 1,33,098
Reductions towards variable consideration (2,329) (1.792)
components
Revenue recognised 1,35,963 1,31,306

The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service
level credits, etc.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

11) Other income

Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.

Other income consist of the following:

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Interest income 2.383 3,197
Dividend income 2.213 3.980
Net gain on investments carried at fair value 193 183
through profit or loss
Net gain on sale of investments other than = 14
equity shares carried at fair value through OCI
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and 19 50
equipment
Net gain on lease modification 89 4
Net foreign exchange gain A428 632
Rent income 7 2
Other income 68 21
5,400 8,083
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits 107 479
Interest on financial assets carried at amortised 500 531
cost
Interest on financial assets carried at fair value 1.762 1.878
through OCl
Other interest (including interest on tax 14 309
refunds)
Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from subsidiaries 2.213 3.980

 

 

 

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 304
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

12) Employee benefits

Defined benefit plans

For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out
at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and
losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in
which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and unvested, is recognised
as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment
occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or
termination benefits.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents
the present value of the defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value
of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation Is limited to the
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the
scheme.

The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund
(Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined
benefit plans.

Defined contribution plans

Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when
employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.

The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined
contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution
plans.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Short-term employee benefits

All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering

the service are classified as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such

as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised

in the period in which the employee renders the related service. A liability

is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service
provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Compensated absences

Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related

services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services
are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.

Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Salaries, incentives and allowances
Contributions to provident and other funds

Staff welfare expenses

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 305
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

Employee benefit obligations — Non-current

(% crore)

PCr Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Other employee benefit obligations 108
108

 

Employee benefit obligations — Current
(% crore)
EXE \4 CE \d
March 31,2021 March 31, 2020
Compensated absences

Other employee benefit obligations

Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
Gratuity and pension

In accordance with Indian law, the Company operates a scheme of gratuity
which is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity plan provides for a lump sum
payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on
termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary
payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion
of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a
trust. Trustees administer contributions made to the trust.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans
and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Change in benefit obligations

Benefit obligations, beginning of the year
Plan assumed on insourcing of employees
Service cost

Interest cost

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit
liability

Benefits paid

Benefit obligations, end of the year

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the
year

Plan assumed on insourcing of employees
Interest income

Employers’ contributions

Benefits paid

Remeasurement - return on plan assets
excluding amount included in interest income

Fair value of plan assets, end of the year

Berle erarelaxe|

(% crore)
Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

 

 

3,636 2,678
= 30
A460 357
244 222
135 520
(162) (171)
4,313 3,636
(% crore)
Year ended Year ended

March 31, 2021

3,641

(162)
119

4,704

 

March 31, 2020

2,671

(171)
111

3,641

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 306

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

PE
March 31, 2021

Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over obligations

Surplus of plan assets over obligations

PE
March 31, 2021

Category of assets

Corporate bonds

Equity instruments

Government bonds and securities
Insurer managed funds

Bank balances

Others

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(% crore)

Pe
March 31, 2020

 

(% crore)

Pe
March 31, 2020

 

Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following
components:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

Service cost

Net interest on net defined benefit (asset) /
liability

Net periodic gratuity cost

Actual return on plan assets

 

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(% crore)

Ea CE \d
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes
in demographic assumptions

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes
in financial assumptions

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes
in experience adjustments

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit
liability

Remeasurement - return on plan assets
excluding amount included in interest income

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 307
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out
below:

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Discount rate 6.50% 6.50%

Rate of increase in compensation levels of 6.00% 6.00%
covered employees

Rate of return on plan assets 6.50% 6.50%

Weighted average duration of defined benefit 10 Years 8 Years
obligations

Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.

The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to
measure the Company's defined benefit plan obligations as at March 31,
2021. The Company is expected to contribute 116 crore to defined benefit
plan obligations funds for year ending March 31, 2022.

The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined
benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The
sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible
changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting
period, while holding all other assumptions constant.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit
obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

(% crore)

PCE 1a Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Increase of 0.50% (190) (151)
Decrease of 0.50% 206 163

 

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined
benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

(% crore)

PCE 1a Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Increase of 0.50% 206 163
Decrease of 0.50% (192) (152)

 

The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the
actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the
change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the
assumptions may be correlated.

Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of
the defined benefit obligations has been calculated using the Projected Unit
Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the
balance sheet.

Standalone Financial Statements | 308
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Each year an Asset - Liability matching study is performed in which the
consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk
and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within
this study.

The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31,
2021 as follows:

(% crore)
Year ending March 31,
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027-2031

Defined benefit obligations

Provident fund

In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of the Company in India
are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both
the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to

a trust set up by the Company to manage the investments and distribute

the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit plan as the
Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at
the minimum, meet the interest rate declared by Government administered
provident fund. A part of the Company's contribution is transferred to
Government administered pension fund. The contributions made by the
Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

statement of profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance
with an actuarial valuation of provident fund liabilities on the basis of

guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions

as mentioned below, there is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present
value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected
guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident fund.

The details of fund and plan assets are given below:

(% crore)

PCE 1a Pe
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Fair value of plan assets 20,003 17,072
Present value of defined benefit obligations (20,003) (17,072)
Net excess / (shortfall) - -

 

The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and
corporate bonds.

The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of
interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:

Ea CE \d
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Discount rate 6.50%
Average remaining tenure of investment 7.73 years
portfolio

Guaranteed rate of return 8.50%

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 309
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

13

—

The Company expensed 71,078 crore and 71,035 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards provident fund.

Superannuation

All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under
Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Company makes monthly
contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Company
recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Company has
no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.

The Company expensed %254 crore and %248 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation
Fund.

Foreign defined contribution plan

The Company expensed %658 crore and %549 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution
plans.

Cost recognition

Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified
according to their nature.

The costs of the Company are broadly categorised in employee benefit
expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, depreciation and
amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include
fees to external consultants, facility expenses, travel expenses, communication
expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses is an
aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission
and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

(a) Cost of equipment and software licences

Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:

(% crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2020

Berle erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and
components consumed
Equipment and software licences
purchased

Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock
Less: Closing stock

 

(b) Other expenses

Other expenses consist of the following:

(% crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2020

Year ended

March 31, 2021
Fees to external consultants
Facility expenses
Travel expenses
Communication expenses
Bad debts and advances written off,
allowance for doubtful trade receivables
and advances (net)
Other expenses

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 310
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Other expenses include %2,944 crore and %3,547 crore for the years
ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards sales, marketing
and advertisement expenses.

(c) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure

As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, amount required to be
spent by the Company during the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020
is 663 crore and %600 crore, respectively, computed at 2% of its average
net profit for the immediately preceding three financial years, on CSR.
The Company incurred an amount of 7674 crore and %602 crore during
the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, towards CSR
expenditure for purposes other than construction / acquisition of any
asset.

14) Finance costs

Finance costs consist of the following:

(% crore)

Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Interest on lease liabilities 450 416
Interest on tax matters 85 256
Other interest costs 2 71

537 743

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

15) Income taxes

Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in
the deferred tax asset or liability during year. Current and deferred taxes are
recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items
that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity,

in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

Current income taxes

The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the
Company and its branches in India and overseas. The current tax payable by
the Company in India is Indian income tax payable on worldwide income after
taking credit for tax relief available for export operations in Special Economic
Zones (SEZs).

Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is
computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the jurisdiction in
which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available
for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide
income.

Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the
balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and income tax provision
arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.

Standalone Financial Statements | 311
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Deferred income taxes

Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business
combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the
time of the transaction.

Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses
can be utilised.

The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred
income tax asset to be utilised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted
tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which the temporary
differences are expected to be received or settled.

For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have
been established for the tax consequences of those temporary differences
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance

with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be available for set off against
future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred

tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it

is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be

realised.

The income tax expense consists of the following:

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year 10,404 8,440
Current tax (benefit) / expense pertaining to (104) 572
prior years
10,300 9,012
Deferred tax
Deferred tax (benefit) / expense for current (294) 1,168
year
Deferred tax (benefit) / expense pertaining to (64) (1.449)
prior years
(358) (281)
9,942 8,731

 

 

 

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 312
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax
rate to income tax expense reported in statement of profit and loss is as

follows:
(% crore)
Year ended Year ended

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Profit before taxes 40,902 41,991
Indian statutory income tax rate 34.94% 34.94%
Expected income tax expense 14,293 14,673
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile
expected income tax expense to reported
income tax expense
Tax holidays (4.708) (4,856)
Income exempt from tax (773) (14)
Undistributed earnings in branches 26 (15)
Tax on income at different rates 1,103 (300)
Tax pertaining to prior years (168) (877)
Others (net) 169 120
Total income tax expense 9,942 8,731

 

 

 

 

The Company benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under

the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays are available for a
period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under
the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1,
2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profit or gains for a
further period of five years and 50% of such profits or gains for the balance
period of five years subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. From April 1,
2011 profits from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum

Alternate Tax (MAT).

Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in
relation to

Property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit
obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at
amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement

Branch profit tax

Unrealised gain on securities carried
at fair value through profit or loss /
other comprehensive income

Lease liabilities

Others

 

 

( crore)
Opening Recognised  Recognisedin Adjustments — Closing
balance inprofitand /reclassified  /utilisation —_ balance
es Lice
oN SISILS
celts
162 128 - - 290
468 171 - - 639
7 - (15) - (8)
327 9 - - 336
1,049 64 - 597 1710
(284) (26) - 5 (310)
(483) - (17) - (500)
308 (98) - - 210
318 110 = - 428
1,872 358 (32) 597 2,795

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 313

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

As at March 31, 2021
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

Property, plant and equipment and Intangible
assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations
Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement

Branch profit tax

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

Lease liabilities

Others

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Poi a)

345

3,160

 

Liabilities

55

 

(% crore)
Net

290

639
(8)
336
1,710
(310)
(500)

210
428

2,795

 

 

Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2020 are as follows:

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
in relation to

Property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit
obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at
amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax

Unrealised gain on securities
carried at fair value through profit
of loss / other comprehensive
income

Lease liabilities*

Others

Opening

balance

Recognised
yee
es

Recognised in
/ reclassified
bie ae
ee LSS
reennts

EMSs
/ utilisation

(% crore)

lle}
balance

 

 

97 65 - - 162
368 100 - - 468
(12) 2 19 - 7
284 43 - - 327

1,157 (108) - -| 1049

(299) 15 2 - | (284)

(149) - (334) -| (483)
235 73 - - 308
225 93 - - 318

1,906 281 (315) -| 1,872

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Opening balance of deferred tax on lease liabilities has been restated by 7147 crore to
give impact of transition to Ind AS 116.

Standalone Financial Statements | 314

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

(% crore)

As at March 31, 2020 Assets Liabilities Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible 225 63 162
assets
Provision for employee benefit obligations 468 a 468
Cash flow hedges 7 = 7
Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost 327 a 327
MAT credit entitlement 1,049 a 1,049
Branch profit tax - 284 (284)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value (483) - (483)
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income
Lease liabilities 308 a 308
Others 318 = 318

2,219 347 1,872

 

 

 

 

 

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Company is liable to pay Minimum
Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be carried forward for

a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT

is recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset can be measured
reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the
asset will be realised.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Direct tax contingencies

The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities relating to
tax treatment of certain items. The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain
expenses claimed as deductions, computation or eligibility of tax incentives or
allowances, and characterisation of fees for services received.

The Company has contingent liability in respect of demands from direct tax
authorities in India and other jurisdictions, which are being contested by the
Company on appeal amounting 7891 crore and 71,453 crore as at March 31,
2021 and 2020, respectively. In respect of tax contingencies of 7318 crore
and %318 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, not included
above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS
e-Serve Limited.

The Company periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax
authorities related to the Company's operations in the jurisdictions it operates
in. The Company has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded
that any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax
authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.

The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending
on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India,
tax filings from fiscal 2017 are generally subject to examination by the tax
authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation
applies to fiscals 2016 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation
vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to
fiscal 2017 and earlier.

Standalone Financial Statements | 315
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

16) Earnings per share

17

18

—

—

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable
to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number
of equity shares outstanding during year. The Company did not have any

potentially dilutive securities in any of years presented.

Year ended
March 31, 2020

33,260
374,01,10,733 375,23,84,706

82.78 88.64
Face value per equity share (?} 1 1

Berle erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021

30,960

Profit for the year (® crore}
Weighted average number of equity shares

Basic and diluted earnings per share (2)

Auditors remuneration

(% crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Services as statutory auditors (including 9 7
quarterly audits)

Tax audit

Services for tax matters

Other services

Re-imbursement of out-of-pocket expenses

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Segment information

The Company publishes the standalone financial statements of the Company
along with the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with

Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment
information in the consolidated financial statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

19) Commitments and Contingencies

Capital commitments

The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) 71,009 crore and
%1,272 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, for purchase of
property, plant and equipment.

Contingencies

e = Direct tax matters
Refer note 15.

e = Indirect tax matters

The Company has ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating
to treatment of characterisation and classification of certain items. The
Company has demands amounting to %495 crore and 464 crore as
at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, from various indirect tax
authorities which are being contested by the Company based on the
management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.

e =©Other claims

Claims aggregating 7105 crore and %133 crore as at March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively, against the Company have not been acknowledged as
debts.

In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation
(referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company in the Court
of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to
and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the
development of the Company’s product MedMantra. In April 2016, the
Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of
%6,900 crore (US $940 million) to Epic which was thereafter reduced
by the Trial Court to 3,083 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to

Standalone Financial Statements | 316
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

reaffirmation of the District Court order in March 2019, the Company
filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge
of %734 crore (US $100 million) award and 71,468 crore

(US $200 million) in punitive damages. On August 20, 2020, the Appeals
Court vacated the award of %2,055 crore (US $280 million) in punitive
damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and
remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to reassess
and reduce the punitive damages award to at most %1,028 crore

(US $140 million), affirmed the District Court’s decision vacating the
jury’s award of 734 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages
for alleged use of “other confidential information” by the Company,

and affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of
%1,028 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of the
comparative analysis by the Company. The Company filed a petition for
re-hearing of compensatory and punitive damages at the Appeals Court
on September 3, 2020. Epic also filed for re-hearing that portion of the
Appeals Court’s decision that invalidated award of punitive damages. In
November 2020, the petitions for re-hearing filed by the Company and
Epic, respectively, were denied by the Appeals Court. The proceedings
for assessing punitive damages have been remanded back to the District
Court. Both the Company and Epic have filed their briefs at the District
Court in relation to punitive damages. The matter is under consideration
by the District Court. On April 8, 2021, Epic has approached the
Supreme Court seeking review of the order of the Appeals Court
vacating the award of %2,055 crore (US $280 million) towards punitive
damages and remanding back to District Court with an instruction to
reassess the punitive damages, to no more than %1,028 crore

(US $140 million). The Company will continue to pursue all legal

options available in the matter. Considering all the facts and various

legal precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company has
provided 71,218 crore (US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

20

=

statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2021. This has
been presented as an “exceptional item” in the standalone statement of
profit and loss.

Pursuant to US Court procedures, a Letter of Credit has been made
available to Epic for %3,230 crore (US $440 million) as financial security
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal
proceedings and conclusion.

e Bank guarantees and letter of comfort

The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities
availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of comfort, the
Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or
indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and
financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the
subsidiary.

The Company has provided guarantees to third parties on behalf of its
subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any outflow of resources in
respect of the above.

The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could
be claimed by counter parties.

The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which
would impact the contributions by the company towards Provident Fund

and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft
rules for the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and has
invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under active consideration
by the Ministry. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once
the subject rules are notified and will give appropriate impact in its financial
statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related
rules to determine the financial impact are published.

Standalone Financial Statements | 317
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

21) Related party transactions

The Company's principal related parties consist of its holding company, Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial

personnel. The Company's material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into

transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 22 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.

Transactions with related parties are as follows:

Revenue from operations

Dividend income

Rent income

Other income

Purchases of goods and services {including reimbursements)
Brand equity contribution

Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful
trade receivables and advances (net)

Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans
Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Loans and advances given

Loans and advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid

Guarantees given

Buy-back of shares

Sale / Redemption of investments

Purchase of investments

Cost recovery

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Tata Sons

Private Limited

 

 

 

TUDE eels
the Company

 

Year ended March 31, 2021
Associates / joint ventures of
Tata Sons Private Limited and

TU ste a eael a e)
Sons Private Limited

rR BRPRPRPWwWI

 

Peierls eater

Col atlmeselKts|
eva as

 

 

(% crore)

10,002
12
224
2,840

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 318

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

 

(® crore}
Year ended March 31, 2020
Tata Sons Private  Subsidiariesof  Subsidiariesof Tata Associates / joint ventures of (Olmert)
Limited the Company — Sons Private Limited Tata Sons Private Limited and Pevm as
cael

Revenue from operations 31 16,998 409 1,859 - 19,297
Dividend income - 3,979 - - - 3,979
Rent income* = = = = = =
Other income = 39 = = = 39
Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements} 1 8,943 550 448 - 9,942
Brand equity contribution 100 = = = = 100
Facility expenses = 28 2 1 = 31
Lease rental 2 s 68 26 s 96
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade 1 - - 1 - 2
receivables and advances (net}
Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans s s s s 2,684 2,684
Purchase of property, plant and equipment s s 219 110 s 329
Loans and advances given s 1 4 85 s 90
Loans and advances recovered s 7 3 30 s 40
Dividend paid 22,971 2 9 2 2 22,980
Guarantees given = 2 = = = 2
Cost recovery - 2,998 - - - 2,998

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Represents value less than 70.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Standalone Financial Statements | 319
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(% crore)
As at March 31, 2021
BEV sto) Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries of Associates / joint ventures Other related
Private Limited the Company Tata Sons Private of Tata Sons Private Limited parties
Limited and their subsidiaries
Trade receivables, unbilled receivables and contract assets 4392 255 ENS) = 5,174
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 65 21 62 = 157
17 4,457 276 581 - 5,331
(% crore)
As at March 31, 2020
BEVecBsrolary SU Xsel Taleo SU Xsel Taleo Associates / joint ventures Other related
Private Limited the Company Tata Sons Private of Tata Sons Private Limited parties
Limited and their subsidiaries
Trade receivables, unbilled receivables and contract assets 4 6,582 223 449 a 7,258
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 10 62 30 65 = 167
14 6,644 253 514 - 7,425

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 320
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Balances payable to related parties are as follows:

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other
financial liabilities and other liabilities

Commitments and Guarantees

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other
financial liabilities and other liabilities

Commitments and Guarantees

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Tata Sons Private

As at March 31, 2021

Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries of

Associates / joint ventures

(% crore)

Other related

 

 

BT ialixaxe| the Company Tata Sons Private of Tata Sons Private Limited parties
Limited Ele eeess ele lalac
91 3,604 296 393 = 4,384
- 4.669 10 270 = 4,949
(% crore)

Tata Sons Private

Limited

93

As at March 31, 2020

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private

Subsidiaries of
the Company

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited

Limited and their subsidiaries
4,152 245 215
4,302 11 367

Other related
parties

 

Sd 4,705

Sd 4.680

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 321
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

Material related party transactions are as follows:

Revenue from operations

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV
Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Purchases of goods and services (including
reimbursements)

Tata America International Corporation

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A.De CV.
TCS Foundation

Dividend income

Tata America International Corporation

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Year ended

(% crore)

Year ended

March 31,2021 March 31, 2020

1,939
2,034
2,504
2,848
1,093

2,803
1,637

1,002

405

 

1,713
1,934
2,020
3,364
1,142

3,416
1414
552

1,752
694

 

 

Material related party balances are as follows:

Trade receivables, unbilled receivables and
contract assets

Tata America International Corporation

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

Tata Consultancy Services France

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV
Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.
Diligenta Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Trade payables, unearned and deferred
revenue, other financial liabilities and other
liabilities

Tata America International Corporation

 

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A.De CV.

PCr

456
219
1,028
244
271
594
290

1,519
168

 

(% crore)

March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

98

900
727
635
311
209

1,314
402

 

Standalone Financial Statements | 322

 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements

 

22

23

—

—

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:

(% crore)

Year ended Bela erarelaxe|
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020

Short-term benefits 43
Dividend paid during the year 1
44

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the
remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and
market trends.

The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity
and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation /
premium paid are not available.

The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is 10 crore
and ®9 crore as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Dividends

Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2021 include an amount of
6.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31,
2020 and an amount of %23.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

the year ended March 31, 2021. Dividends paid during the year ended

March 31, 2020 include an amount of %18.00 per equity share towards final
dividend for the year ended March 31, 2019 and an amount of %67.00 per
equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) for the year

ended March 31, 2020.

Dividends declared by the Company are based on the profit available for
distribution. On April 12, 2021, the Board of Directors of the Company
have proposed a final dividend of %15.00 per share in respect of the year
ended March 31, 2021 subject to the approval of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of

approximately %5,549 crore.

 

As per our report of even date attached

For BS R& Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm's registration no:
101248W/W- 100022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Bengaluru, Apri! 12, 2021

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan —=N Ganapathy Subramaniam
CEO and COO and Executive Director
Managing Director

V Ramakrishnan Rajendra Moholkar
CFO Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 323
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr.| Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming | Start date of CR mmcoay Exchange Share Reserves Total Bee ay CSET ATO A oT Country
No. subsidiary accounting | accounting period | Currency LEELA (erie) Ela Assets Liabilities tele an LEY ais ES a PCC a]
period of of subsidiary Sel Tax
subsidiary Z crore
1 |APTOnline Limited August 9, 2004} April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) INR 1.000000 2 99 164 63 22 151 21 6 15 = 89% India
2. |MP Online Limited September 8, 2006) April 12020) March 31,2021} INR 1.000000 1 103 156 52 93 70 22 5 17 = 89% India
3 |C-Edge Technologies Limited January 19,2006} April 1,2020/ = March 31,2021) INR 1.000000 10 267 379 102 = 303 97 25 72 = 51% India
4 |MahaOnline Limited September 23,2010} April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) INR 1.000000 3 79 199 117 39 36 5 2 3 = 74% India
5 |CMC Americas, Inc. August 9, 2004] April 1, 2020} == March 31,2021) USD | 73402500 = = = = = 62 30 = 30 = = USA.
6 |TCS e-Serve International Limited December 31,2008] April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) INR 1.000000 10 59 722 653 12) 1,485 58 7 51 -| 100% India
7 |TCS e-Serve America, Inc. February 10, 2009) January 1, 2020|/December 31,2020) USD 73.402500 2 = 2 = = 97 17 2 15 -| 100% USA.
8 |Diligenta Limited August 23, 2005 |January 1, 2020|December 31,2020] GBP |101.060549 10} 1,393} 2,509) 1,106 384) 3,899 331 56 275 -| 100% UK.
9 |Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. October 1, 2009} April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) CAD 58.269826 41 929) 1,990) 1,020 -| 6,268 656 173 483 -| 100% Canada
10 |Tata America International Corporation August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) USD 73.402500 1) 1,173) 3,003} 1829 98) 3,052 913 261 652 -| 100% USA.
11 |Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) USD 73.402500 32 853) 1,494 609 794) 2,103 262 34 228 -| 100% Singapore
Pre Ltd.
12 |Tata Consultancy Services (China) November 16, 2006) January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) CNY 11196574 226 4 324 94 = 779 68 15 53 -| 93.2% China
Co., Ltd.
13 |Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. July 12014) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) JPY 0.663465 287) 1,135) 2.762) 1,340 -| 4,852 317 98 219 = 66% Japan
14 |Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia August 9, 2004} April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) MYR 17.704414 4 90 175 81 = 439 36 8 28 -| 100% Malaysia
Sdn Bhd
15 |PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia October 5, 2006} April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021} IDR 0.005054 1 28 70 41 = 88 17 5 12 -| 100% Indonesia
16 |Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) |September 19, 2008| April 1, 2020} — March 31,2021) PHP 1512440 (42) 140 393 295 = 648 8 5 3 -| 100% Philippines
Inc.

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 324
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr.| Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming | Start date of cmc Exchange Share Reserves Total re aN eeu al aC a ee) Td roi Country
No. subsidiary accounting | accounting period | Currency LEELA (erie) Ela Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding
period of of subsidiary Sel Tax
subsidiary Z crore

17 |Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) May 12,2008} April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) THB 2.343630 2 13 44 29 = 102 13 3 10 -| 100% Thailand
Limited

18 |Tata Consultancy Services Belgium August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) EUR 86.203859 2 509 917 406 -| 2,251 220) 55 165 -| 100% Belgium

19 |Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) EUR 86.203859 1 691) 1,805) 1113 -| 5,493 322 108 214 -| 100% Germany
GmbH

20 |Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021} SEK 8.425738 = 758) = 1,312 554 -| 3,646 194] 43 151 -| 100% Sweden

21 |Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) EUR 86.203859 569) 2,242) 3,700 889 1653) 5371 405 61 344 -| 100% Netherlands
BV

22 |TCS Italia srl. August 9, 2004} April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) EUR | 86203859 19 39 162 104 = 413 44) 18 26 -| 100% Italy

23 |Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg October 28, 2005) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) EUR 86.203859 48 62 244 134 = 640 74 21 53 -| 100% Capellen (GD.
SA. de Luxembourg}

24 |Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland October 31,2006) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) CHF 7.946798 12 533) 1,261 716 -| 2,944 297 56 241 -| 100% Switzerland
Ltd.

25 |Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich March 9, 2012) April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) EUR 86.203859 = 5 14 9 = 66 = = = -| 100% Austria
GmbH

26 |Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS March 16,2012) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) DKK 11590112 1 5 14 8 = 16 = = = -| 100% Denmark

27 |Tata Consultancy Services De Espana August 9, 2004) April 1, 2020) = March 31, 2021) EUR 86.203859 1 52 155 102 = 363 13 2 11 -| 100% Spain
SA.

28 |Tata Consultancy Services (Portugal) July 4, 2005) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) EUR 86.203859 = 5 31 26 = 32 5 = 5 -| 100% Portugal
Unipessoal, Limitada

29 Tata Consultancy Services France June 28,2013} April 12020] — March 31,2021] EUR 86.203859 4) (436)) 1,311) 1,743 -| 2,106 (3) 7 (10) -| 100% France

30 |Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia July 2,2015) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021) SAR 19571390 7 264 333 62 = 321 32 6 26 = 76% Saudi Arabia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 325
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr.| Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming | Start date of cmc Exchange Share Reserves Total re aN eeu al aC a ee) Td roi Country
No. subsidiary accounting | accounting period | Currency LEELA (erie) Ela Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding
period of of subsidiary Sel Tax
subsidiary
31 |Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) October 23,2007) April 1, 2020) March 31,2021) ZAR 4.952768 7 AG 53 = 53 = 29 = 29 100% South Africa
(PTY) Ltd.
32 |Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) | October 31,2007| April 1, 2020} — March 31,2021) ZAR 4.952768 9 76 326 241 = 849 50 13 37 100% South Africa
(PTY) Ltd.
33 JTCS FNS Pty Limited October 17,2005] April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) AUD | 55910684 208} (63) 145 = 2 = 84) = 84 100% Australia
34 | TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co.,Ltd. | December 29, 2006|January 1, 2020/December 31,2020) CNY 11196574 41 (4) 62 25 = 73 9 = 9 100% China
35 |TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty October 19,2005] April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) AUD | 55910684 = 81 136 55 40 78 60} 18 42 100% Australia
Limited
36 |TCS Iberoamerica SA August 9, 2004] April 1, 2020} == March 31,2021) USD | 73402500 722 866) 1,596 8 1,587 = 383 1 382 100% Uruguay
37 |TCS Solution Center S.A. August 9, 2004} April 1, 2020} = March 31, 2021) UYU 1.656194 59 283 481 139 = 747 142 27 115 100% Uruguay
38 |Tata Consultancy Services Argentina SA. August 9, 2004} April 1, 2020} = March 31,2021) ARS 0.798238 4 (2) 36 34 - 35 (1) - (1) 100% Argentina
39 |Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda August 9, 2004|January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) BRL 12711490 223 (23) 402 202 = 712 107 40 67 100% Brazil
40 |Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico August 9, 2004|January 1, 2020/December 31,2020) MXN 3.572698 1} 1,003) 1,545 541 -| 2470 373 117 256 100% Mexico
SA, De CV.
41 |Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. August 9, 2004 January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) CLP 0.100520 171 222 551 158 56 529 (8) (5) (3) 100% Chile
42 |TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada August 9, 2004|January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) CLP 0.100520 154] 173 338 11 323 36 3 1 2 100% Chile
43 |TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. December 28, 2006|January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) USD | 73402500 22 81 194 91 = 436 63 18 45 100% Ecuador
44 |TCS Uruguay SA. January 1,2010| April 1, 2020} = March 31, 2021) UYU 1.656194 = 96 161 65 = 415 303 19 284 100% Uruguay
45 |MGDC S.C. January 1, 2010|January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) MXN 3.572698 = 57 118 61 = 98 54 10 44 100% Mexico
46 |Technology Outsourcing SA.C. October 30,2015 |January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) PEN | 19.459320 - - - - - 24 (3) 4 (7) - Peru
47 |Tata Consultancy Services Qatar SS.C._ | December 20,2011) April 1, 2020 March 31, 2021) QAR 20.156662 4 27 59 28 - 60 - - - 100% Qatar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Standalone Financial Statements | 326
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr.| Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming | Start date of cmc Exchange Share Reserves Total re aN eeu al aC a ee) Td roi Country
No. subsidiary accounting | accounting period | Currency LEELA (erie) Ela Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding

period of of subsidiary Sel Tax

subsidiary
48 |W12 Studios Limited October 31, 2018) June 1, 2020 May 31,2021} GBP |101.060549 = 28 28 = = = = = = = 100% UK.
49 |TCS Business Services GmbH March 9, 2020) April 1, 2020) March 31,2021} EUR 86.203859 - (28) 118 146 55 108 (4) (1) (3) -| 100% Germany
50 |Tata Consultancy Services Ireland December 2, 2020) January 1, 2020|December 31,2020) EUR 86.203859 216 14 426 196 = 234 15 1 14 -| 100% Ireland

Limited

51 [Postbank Systems AG January 1, 2021|January 1, 2020|December 31,2020] EUR 86.203859 28 (49)} 2,132} 2153 - 382 (50) - (50) -| 100% Germany
52 |TCS Foundation March 25,2015) April 1, 2020) = March 31,2021} INR 1.000000 1} 1,087) 1,092 4 161 = 93 = 93 = 100% India
Notes:
1. Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2021.
2. Equity stake in Technology Outsourcing S.A.C. was sold on December 1, 2020.
3. Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited was incorporated on December 2, 2020.
4. CMC Americas, Inc. was liquidated w.e.f. December 16, 2020.
5. — Equity stake in Postbank Systems AG acquired wef. January 1, 2021.
6. Tata Consultancy Services France SA was renamed as Tata Consultancy Services France.

 

For and on behalf of the Board

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and Managing Director

V Ramakrishnan
CFO

Mumbai, April 12, 2021

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Rajendra Moholkar
Company Secretary

Standalone Financial Statements | 327
Glossary

 

 

Fifth generation wireless technology

for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to
be much faster and enable much higher volumes
of data sharing than earlier generations of
cellular networks. Its massive capacity and ultra-
low latency are expected to usher in an era of
hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases
such as autonomous cars, and accelerating the
adoption of loT.

These are key enablers of TCS’ Location
Independent Agile model, and represent

the next generation work environment that
facilitate greater collaboration among teams. It
is characterized by partition-less open offices,
informal seating, interactive surfaces for
information capture, and modern collaboration
devices for increased productivity.

 

 

See Application Development and Maintenance

See Artificial Intelligence

 

 

A collaborative approach for IT and business
teams to develop software incrementally
and faster. TCS has pioneered the Location
Independent Agile™ model that allows for
deployment at scale, and helps globally
distributed organization execute large
transformational programs quickly, while
ensuring stability and quality.

TCS’ proprietary approach and suite of
intellectual property that enables retailers

to seamlessly integrate and orchestrate data
flows across the retail value chain, harnessing
the power of analytics, Al and machine

learning in the areas of personalization, pricing
optimization, marketing, online search and
commerce to unlock exponential business value.

 

 

 

 

AgilityDebt™ is a simple index developed by
TCS, which uniquely indicates the burden carried
by an organization that restricts its Agility. The
index is arrived at based on a holistic Agile
maturity assessment framework that measures
the gap against required Agile talent, roles,
team composition, delivery practices, Agile
culture, Agile technology and DevOps enablers.
TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to assess where the
customer's teams are in the Agile journey, find
the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile
transformations.

An accounting concept similar to depreciation,
but used to measure the consumption of
intangible assets.

 

In the enterprise context, this is the discovery,
interpretation, and communication of
meaningful patterns in business data to predict
and improve business performance.

 

A long-term contract which can guarantee
regular payments.

 

Acronym for Asia Pacific

 

 

 

 

See Application Programming Interface

 

 

 

Glossary | 328
 

 

API fication The process of exposing a discrete business
function or data within an enterprise’s systems

through APIs.

  

 

 
 
   
 
 

Application Design, development, and deployment of
BY-le) uri] CUStoM software; ongoing support, upkeep, and
and enhancement of such software over its lifetime.
Maintenance

 

   
 

Application A set of easily accessible protocols for
Pxetele-lialalinehe| COMMuUNiIcation among various software
Tnikclarlec) components.

 

 

AS See Augmented Reality

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

Artificial Technology that emulates human performance
Intelligence by learning, coming to its own conclusions,
understanding complex content, engaging in
natural dialogs with people, augmenting human
effort or replacing people on execution of
non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive
Computing.

 

   

SSN Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian
Nations

 

  
 

EGSacy Ulam) A measure of the total assets for which a
COUT el< 7 financial institution, typically a custodian bank,
provides custodian services.

 

  
 

See Assets Under Custody

 

 
   
  
   

Measures what portion of the workforce left the
organization (voluntarily and involuntarily) over
the last 12 months (LTM).

Attrition (LTM) = Total number of departures in
the LTM / closing headcount

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

Augmented Technology that superimposes a computer-
eT generated image on a user's view of the real
world to enrich the interaction.

   
  

 

PUireliacracoya

    
   
  

The execution of work by machines in
accordance with rules that have either been
explicitly coded by a human or ‘learned’ by
the machine through pattern recognition of
data. Popular types include Robotic Process
Automation and Cognitive Automation.

 

  

Basis Point One hundredth of a percentage point, that is,

0.01 percent.

 

   
  

Pies] Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and
Insurance

 

[2a DY] A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety
information asset that require new forms of
processing to enable enhanced decision making,
insight discovery, and process optimization.

   
   

 

 
  

A distributed database that maintains a
continuously growing list of records, called
blocks, secured from tampering and revision.

 

See Basis Point

 

 

  

See Business Process as a Service

 

   

See Business Process Services

 

 

 

 

sins ae 1 CS’ thought leadership framework that helps
enterprises leverage technology to further their
growth and transformation agenda. Successful
Business 4.0 enterprises use technology

to deliver mass personalization, leverage
ecosystems, embrace risk and create exponential
value. Such enterprises are agile, intelligent,
automated and on the cloud.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

eI Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud
rele Ee) COMpUting model. Whereas traditional BPS

ot -Iate) relies on labor arbitrage to reduce costs, BPaaS
aggregates demand using the cloud, servicing
multiple customers with a single instance, multi-
tenant platform and shared services, thereby
delivering significant operating efficiencies. The
pricing model is usually outcome based.

 

  
   
 
 

Designing, enabling, and executing business
operations including data management,
analytics, interactions and experience
management.

 

A corporate action in which a company returns
excess cash to shareholders by buying back its
shares from them and usually extinguishing
those shares thereafter. The company’s

equity share capital and the number of shares
outstanding in the market correspondingly
reduces.

   
  
 
   

 

  

 

See Compounded Annual Growth Rate

 

Glossary | 329
 

eeToNiF| Funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade,
Site (sUlg-M| aNd Maintain physical assets such as property,
(CapEx} buildings, an industrial plant, technology, or
equipment.

 

(eieene-sam Cash comprises cash on hand and demand
Equivalents

/ time / fixed deposits. Cash equivalents are
short-term, highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to known amounts of cash
and which are subject to an insignificant risk of
changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are
held for the purpose of meeting short-term
cash commitments rather than for investment
or other purposes.

 

(Octo amon Inflows and outflows of cash and cash

equivalents.

 

Cash Primarily derived from the principal revenue
Flow from producing activities. Therefore, they generally
Operating result from the transactions and other events
Pret ia ot that enter into the determination of profit or
loss.

 

See Cognitive Business Operations

 

See Constant Currency

 

Computer programs designed to simulate
conversation with human users, especially over
the internet. They are typically used in dialog
systems for various practical purposes like
customer service or information acquisition.

 

See Cloud Computing

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

The delivery of easily provisionable computing
resources — servers, storage, databases,
networking, software, analytics and more — over
the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go
basis.

   
 
 
   

 

  

Acronym for Communication, Media and
Technology

 

  
   
 
 
  

(roel nN iahi=) The use of Al and machine learning to automate
PUireliacracoya relatively more complex tasks that require
reasoning capability and contextual awareness.
TCS’ ignio™ is a leading cognitive automation
software product in the market today.

 

   
 
 
 
   

(roel nN iahi=) An integrated offering where TCS takes

eI responsibility for the outcome of an entire
Operations slice of the customers’ operations including
(CBO} the business processes and the underlying IT
infrastructure, and uses cognitive automation to
transform that operational stack.

 

(roel nN iahi=) See Artificial Intelligence
Computing

 

 

 
  

COIN See Co-Innovation Network

 

(ecSitaencieam [his is an extended, global innovation
Network ecosystem curated by TCS, to harness the
innovation efforts of start-ups and academia,
and incorporate them into transformational
solutions built by TCS for its customers.

  
 
    

 

   
 

ley enemy The annual growth rate between any two points
FTN Nelcon aay in time, assuming that it has been compounding
pene (@\el= me during that period.

 

 

 

 

  
 
   
    

Connected Part of the TCS ADD suite, CCT Is an innovative
el Tilfe=I Marla] SOftware-as-a-service platform that enables life
(ean yerisielgnam Sciences companies to significantly transform
patient engagement in clinical trials and improve
adherence to protocols, as well as the efficiency
and accountability of clinical trials.

 

   
 

Constant The basis for restating the current period's
Celie iae 7 revenue growth after eliminating the impact of
movements in exchange rates during the period.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
    

[oy nin) cur
Knowledge

This is tacit knowledge pertaining to, and
specific to, the granular nuances of a customer's
business and IT landscape, acquired on the job
over a period of time. TCS teams use their
contextual knowledge to design technology
solutions that are uniquely tailored for that
customer, and therefore, a potential source of
competitive differentiation.

 

 
 

lee) Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods

 

    
 
    
 

(eeye-y =F al diarspe| A back-end system that processes daily banking
Sint transactions and posts updates to accounts

and other financial records; typically includes
deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities,
with interfaces to general ledger systems and
reporting tools.

 

 

Glossary | 330
 

[eolg- Modernization initiatives that target the one or
Melsieluciey more elements of the organization's operations
stack consisting of business processes, software
systems and underlying infrastructure, usually
to enable greater agility, scalability, resilience
and a superior customer experience. These are
typically large in scale and scope, and entail the
integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.

 

eypsiaeeiisal Technologies, processes and practices designed
to protect networks, computers, programs

and data from attack, damage or unauthorized
access.

 

Days’ Sales A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivable

(ecsr-inelinem relative to the company’s Revenue.
(DSO)

DSO = Trade Receivable * 365 / LTM Revenue

 

BY-pyevarideamen| A method of allocating the cost of a tangible
long-term asset over its useful life. It is a non-
cash accounting entry found in the statement of
profit and loss.

 

Represents a new way of working to rapidly
deploy new releases of a software in production
using high levels of automation and tooling. TCS
recommends adoption of DevOps, along with
Agile for speed to market.

 

Represents new age technologies such as Social
Media, Mobility, Analytics, Big Data, Cloud,
Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things.
Increasingly, with these technologies becoming
mainstream, this word is becoming redundant.

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

A digital replica of a physical entity. For
instance, a digital twin of a factory Is a virtual
model of the factory built using its data, process
and people information. The Impact of any
change in a process in the real factory can be
studied by simulating the change in the digital
twin.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Discretion Also known as Change the Business (CTB}
Spend spend, It is that portion of the IT budget which
is used to fund projects that are not, strictly
speaking, essential for day to day operations,
but are more transformational in nature. In
uncertain economic times, when businesses are
forced to cut spends in response to decline in
income, discretionary spend is often the first
to be scrutinized. However, what is considered
discretionary Is subjective and may differ
considerably amongst businesses even within
the same sector.

   
   
  
   
 
 
   
 

 

   

Distributed See Blockchain
R-Xelol et

Technology

 

Dividend One form of distribution of profits earned

by the Company and is usually declared as

an amount per equity share held by the
shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring
quarterly interim dividends and the final dividend
is approved by the shareholders in the Annual
General Meeting.

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

  

See Distributed Ledger Technology

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
    
  

 

=lanliesmamen| [he amount of that period’s Net Income
Sie) attributable to a single share after deducting any
preference dividend and related taxes.

EPS = [Net profit attributable to Shareholders
of the Company — Preference dividend, if any]
/ Weighted average number of equity shares
outstanding during the period

 

Computing and storage that is located on
servers on the edge of the network, in close
proximity to the users, but not through an on-
premise data center; usually reserved for low
latency use cases.

 

Siiseq-NEL@ee) [he proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is
Peay provided towards income taxes.

ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax

 

Sielln=-Ulaeiee| Consists of next generation product
Elacllneleiaieliem| engineering, manufacturing operations
rae=c) transformation, services transformation,
embedded software and Internet of Things.

 

Enterprise The adoption of Agile methods across all the
Agile business functions of the enterprise, designed
to empower employees, foster collaboration and
drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale.

EPS See Earnings Per Share
ETR See Effective Tax rate

 

 

 

Fair Value The price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the

measurement date.

   
   

 

 

Glossary | 331
 

Businesses that use technology to make
financial services more efficient. Some fintech
developments have improved traditional
services, for example mobile banking apps, while
others have revolutionized services such as pay
per mile car insurance, or created new products,
such as Bitcoin.

 

A form of services contracts where the vendor
takes a turnkey responsibility for delivering a
solution for a certain price and within a mutually
agreed timeframe. The customer ts billed on
completion of key project milestones and
related deliverables. This arrangement gives the
vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and
execution of the project. On the other hand, it
also means bearing the project risk.

Fixed Price
(Soa tde-lalas)

 

A hedging instrument wherein two parties agree
to buy or sell a particular asset (such as stock or
currency) at a pre-determined rate (or Forward
rate} on a specific future date.

For e.g. TCS enters into a forward contract

to sell USD 1 million after 3 months @ 272.
Irrespective of the prevailing USD-INR spot
rate, TCS will be obliged to sell USD 1 million @
%72 at the end of 3 months.

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

arly oll.4 A kind of intellectual property, consisting of
software which provides generic functionality
for a certain business use case, and which is
customized for a specific customer's needs with
additional code. Use of such pre-built code
reduces time to market and results in more

stable, reliable solutions.

   
  
    
 

 

  
 
  
 

ar-R@-lpmleg Represents the cash a company generates
through its operations, less the capital
expenditure.

Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating
activities — Capital expenditure

 

   
   

A temporary cessation of work without pay
for the employees, usually implemented by
organizations facing under difficult economic
conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees.

 

   
 

The process of adding games or game-like
elements to any activity in order to enrich
experiences and encourage user participation.

 

  
  

Acronym for General Data Protection
Regulation, a European Union
regulation for data protection and privacy.

 

Initiatives launched to improve the enterprise's
Mensicmuciean revenues, leveraging technology to adopt new
business models, drive new revenue streams,
enhance customer experience or target new
customer segments. This is in contrast to
traditional outsourcing engagements where the
focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

See Growth and Transformation

 

 

 

 

 

 

aN ich@lescmem An enterprise IT infrastructure model that
combines private clouds, public clouds and on
premise data centers, to meet the compute and
storage needs of the business.

  
   

 

  
  
   

Innovation Focused workshops with a TCS customer where
Days researchers and business leaders from both
organizations participate to explore emerging

technologies for specific customer problems.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Innovation TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in
imelae nat North America, UK, Latin America and Japan.

It brings together researchers from academia,
innovators from the start-up ecosystem,
technology watchers, futurists and customers to
brainstorm around emerging technologies.

 

   
  
 

Inorganic Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions
Growth or takeovers, rather than due to an increase In
the company’s own business activity.

 

 
  
 
   
  
  

A network of interconnected machines or
Things devices embedded with sensors, software,
network connectivity, and necessary electronics
to generate and share run-time data that can

be studied and used to monitor or control
remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design
of those machines / devices.

Titeclan=imeli

 

  
   
   
 
  

Miveseselmelaesa Aggregation of cash and various forms of
investments (excluding investments in equity
shares designated at fair value through OCI}.

Invested Funds = Cash and Cash Equivalents +
Investments (excluding equity shares designated
at fair value through OCI} + Bank deposits +
Inter-corporate deposits

 

 

Glossary | 332
 

 

Taimell ered)
ike) elma

An asset that is the result of a creative design or
idea, such as patents, copyrights, reusable code,
software products and platforms, and gives the
owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that
no one can copy or reuse the creation without
the owner’s permission.

   
 
 
 
   

 

  
   
 
 
 
   

Interactive
Technology

Allows for a two-way flow of information
through an interface between the user and the
technology; the user usually communicates a
request for data or action to the technology
with the technology returning the requested
data or result of the action back to the user.

 

A reduction in the workforce due to the
employer's decision to terminate employment,
instead of the employees’ decision to leave.

 
  

Involuntary

 

 

See Internet of Things

 

  
 

See Intellectual Property

 

  

See Key Managerial Personnel

 

   
   
   

Naeleteuel| At TCS, this refers to the Chief Executive Officer
Teton and Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer
and Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer,
and the Company Secretary. Please refer to the
company’s policy on KMP.

 

  

Acronym for Latin America

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

Location
Independent
Xela

   
 
 
 
 
   

A method to orchestrate globally distributed
stakeholders and talent into Agile teams

for improved speed to market in large
transformational programs. It comprises
processes, structure, and the technology
that allows enterprises to overcome location
constraints and embrace Agile methods on a
global scale.

 

  
  

a

Last Twelve Months

 

Machine First™
Delivery Model

   
  

A model that integrates analytics, Al and
automation deep within the enterprise to
redefine how humans and machines work
together and to effectively deliver superior
outcomes.

 

   
 

A type of artificial intelligence that provides
computers with the ability to learn behaviors
without being explicitly programmed.

 

   
   
 
 
    

This is the practice of outsourcing to one
service provider, also known as the Managed
Services Provider (MSP}, the end-to-end
responsibility for providing, or orchestrating
the provision through third party providers

of, services around a range of processes and
functions, in order to improve efficiency, service
quality, agility and scalability.

 

  

Service providers with the sole, end-to-end
responsibility of providing Managed Services.

 

 

 

 

Market
Capitalization

The total market value of a company’s total
outstanding equity shares at a point in time.

 
  
   

Market Cap = Last Trading Price * Total number
of outstanding shares

 

  

Mle Acronym for Middle East and Africa

 

  

MFDM™ Acronym for Machine First Delivery Model

 

   
  
   
 
 
    

Minimum The most basic version of a new product, with
WE) (dmcervlaal the bare minimum functionality, which can

be released to the users at the earliest, to

be augmented with incremental features and
functionality over subsequent iterative cycles.
MVPs can be used by teams to learn about user
behavior and validate the product value with
minimum investment.

 

  
   

Information, convenience, and social media all
combined together, and made available across a
variety of screen sizes and hand-held devices.

 

See Managed Services Provider

 

 

See Minimum Viable Product

 

 

  
  

Non- The share of the net worth attributable to non-
exolniace) [late] controlling shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Titeclnoy

 

Non- Also known as Run the Business (RTB} spend,
ClSer-delicia\aem) 1s that portion of the IT budget that covers the
Spend basic IT activities required to keep a business
running. Even in tough economic times,
non-discretionary spend remains relatively
unaffected.

   
 
    
 

 

 

Glossary | 333
 

A hedging instrument that offers the buyer
the right to buy or sell the underlying asset
(such as stocks or currency} on a future date,
at a specified price, for small upfront fee called
options premium.

Eg: TCS purchases an options contract to sell
USD 1mn @ % 77/5 after 3 months, paying an
option premium of 21 million. With this, TCS will
have the right to sell USD 1mn at an exchange
rate of 777, even if the prevailing market rate

at the end of three months Is, say 775. On the
other hand, if the market rate is higher, say 779,
then TCS can choose to let the options contract
lapse and instead sell at the market rate.

 

Order Book See Total Contract Value

 

Organic
Ciro

The revenue growth a company can achieve by
increasing its existing business activity. This does
not include growth attributable to takeovers,
acquisitions or mergers.

 

erdnly Other comprehensive income (OCI} comprises
(eccn-isiiey tems of income and expense, including
Income reclassification adjustments, that are not
recognized in profit or loss as required or
permitted by Ind ASs.

 

PaaS See Platform as a Service

 

Pei Pzlsela Segmentation and responding to individual
transactions, customized for a single customer
in a single instance.

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

Platforms A group of technologies that are used as a
base upon which other applications, processes
or technologies are developed. Useful for
optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating
iterative tasks to drive strategic business

initiatives.

   
 
 
 
    

 

eelmumecrenen| A category of cloud computing that provides a
Seilecs (ee siam platform and environment to allow developers
to build applications and services over the
internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud
and accessed by users simply via their web
browser.

   
   
   

 

   
   
 
   
 

The price charged to the customer for a billable
effort, turnkey project or a certain process
outcome, depending on the nature of the
contract. Some use this term interchangeably
(and somewhat inaccurately} with the average
revenue realized by the company per utilized
effort on an aggregate basis. See Realization.

 

 
   
   

aN elenelelecmml Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT
infrastructure, in terms of compute and storage
resources, are provisioned for the dedicated use

of a single organization.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

In the technology context, refers to a packaged
software program that is made available to
multiple customers either on a license basis, or
on a subscription basis, to enable the execution
of certain common tasks or processes or
business functions in a standardized way. This

is the opposite of bespoke or custom software
which ts built to specifications to meet a
customer's unique needs.

 

 

 

 

Public Cloud

  
   
  

A computing service model used for the
provisioning of storage and computational
services to the general public over the internet.
Public cloud facilitates access to IT resources on
a ‘pay as you go’ billing model.

 

 

R&l

Acronym for Research & Innovation

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Realization

The revenue received by the company per
utilized effort. Pricing varies by service and by
market. Consequently, there can be changes
in realization compared to a prior period,

due to changes in the underlying business or
geographic mix during the period. This does
not necessarily mean that like-to-like pricing
has changed. Also, realization doesn’t take
into account the costs and therefore, higher
realization Is not necessarily more profitable.

 

   
    
 
 

ele TKO <1 ERN]
Transactions

Any transaction between a company and its
related party involving transfer of services,
resources or any obligation, regardless of
whether a price is charged.

Please refer to the Company's policy on Related
Party Transactions.

 

   
  
 

The income earned by the Company from
operations by providing IT and consulting
services, software licenses, and hardware

equipment to customers.

 

 

Glossary | 334
 

Acronym for Request for Proposal, meaning

a document that solicits proposal, often

made through a bidding process, by an entity
interested in procurement of IT services, to
potential service providers to submit business
proposals. An RFP is floated early in the
procurement cycle and requested information
may include basic corporate information and
history, financial information, technical capability
and estimated completion period, and customer
references.

 

Robotic The use of software tools to automate high-
eiKeacts) volume, repeatable tasks that previously
PUireliacracela required humans to perform. RPA is best suited
for relatively simple and stable processes.
Dynamic changes in the environment require
ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting

the economic benefit of the automation.
Increasingly, customers are preferring cognitive
automation over RPA.

 

oN See Robotic Process Automation

 

Sci See Secure Borderless Workspaces

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

RYatel0] gc) TCS’ innovative operating model rolled out

etol neg loney in response to the COVID-19 disruption. It
Nel ca-la-ome iS a fully location agnostic extension of the
Location Independent Agile model, enabling
employees to work remotely, while retaining
the same high rigor in project management,
governance and security. The fully distributed
nature of this model is better suited to ensure
business continuity. It leverages TCS’ prior
investments and incorporates the learnings and
best practices around network management,
standard service delivery environment,
digitized governance processes, heavy use of
collaborative and cloud based technologies and
an internal SOC benchmarked to the best in the
industry.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a

 

  

Sa See Special Economic Zone

 

  
    
 
   
  
 

S)ielce)|«-lgum| The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders
Pe Weliaicidelmml aS a percentage of the Company's earnings, ie.
Net Income attributable to Shareholders of the
Company. Payout can be in the form of dividend
and share buyback. Payout includes tax payable
by the company on behalf of the shareholders
in the form of dividend distribution tax and
buyback tax.

 

   
 
    

STi oiietlelame| The rationalization of IT architectures through
consolidation of systems and elimination of
redundant systems and layers. The primary
purpose Is to shrink the IT footprint and make
operations leaner and more efficient.

 

 

 

 

  
 
   
 
    

Yo) [-pclelpa-elum| Non-competitive agreements that allow a single
(eolnaelad vendor to fulfill the needs of the contractual
requirements. These types of contracts can be
won when the competitor set narrows down
significantly and comes down to a single vendor
discussion, given the nature of the client's
solution requirements.

 

 
    
   
 

Special In India, these are designated areas in which
seolarelialie business and trade laws are different from the
Zone rest of the country, with various benefits and tax
breaks to promote exports, attract investments,
and create local jobs.

 

  

y=] An acronym for education in the fields of
science, technology, engineering and math.

 

  

T&M See Time and Materials Contract

 

   
 
 
 
   

TCS Pace™ A brand promise that represents the way

TCS channels its domain knowledge and
organizational units — business and technology
services, industry solutions units, and the
research and innovation organization — into

internal and external co-innovation programs.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be
experienced. These spaces are close to academic
and start-up hubs, and enclose innovation
showcases, Agile workspaces and think

spaces. They encourage brainstorming, design
thinking and collaborative innovation with
internal and external partners.

 

  

 

See Total Contract Value

 

 

Glossary | 335
 

Time and A form of services contract where the customer
erecta] Es is billed for the effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc}
logged by the project team members. Project
risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts
with Fixed Price Contracts.

 

An aggregation of the value of all the contracts
signed during a period and a useful indicator of
demand, and near term business visibility.

 

See Fixed Price Contracts

(Soa tde-lalas)

 

Olean Invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for
Ele Dl-i-iur-remm services yet to be delivered. In other words, it is
SeiiclalUle the amount that has been invoiced although the
underlying effort is yet to be expended.

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

  

VR See Virtual Reality

 

ave celina Artificial, computer-generated simulation

  
  
  

or recreation of a real-life environment or
situation. It engages users by offering simulated
reality experiences firsthand, primarily by
stimulating their vision and hearing.

 

  
 
   

iiuiellretmelamen| The abstraction of IT resources — like a server,
client, storage or network — that masks the
physical nature and boundaries of those
resources from the users of those resources.

 

Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from
employees willingly leaving the organization to
pursue other opportunities, spend time with
family, or for some other personal reason.

  
  

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers
augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed
reality.

 

  

Y-o-¥ Year-on-Year

 

 

Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand
commonly used terms and phrases in this report. The
explanations are not intended to be technical definitions.
If explanations provided here are found to be different
from what is described in the Company's periodic financial
statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the
definition provided in the certified financial statements will
prevail.

Glossary | 336
GRI Annexures

 

ABOUT THIS REPORT*

This report for FY 2021 (year ending March 31, 2021) is an Integrated Report, that covers TCS' performance
across financial, human, intellectual, relationship, social, natural and manufactured capitals. The last edition was
for FY 2020. It has been prepared in accordance with the Integrated Reporting framework and GRI Standards
Core Option.

SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF REPORTING

Reporting period

This report is produced and published annually. It provides material information relating to TCS strategy and
business model, operating context, material risks, stakeholder interests, performance, prospects and governance,
covering the year April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021.

Financial and non-financial reporting

The basis and exclusions for reporting are as below:

 

 

Data Basis Exclusions

Financial TCS' consolidated global operations None

Human Resources TCS' global operations, including wholly owned Subsidiaries not wholly owned by TCS (accounting
subsidiaries for 2.4% of the consolidated headcount)

Environmental Delivery centers in Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, | Remaining delivery centers, accounting for ~4%
Hungary, India, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, of the headcount
Singapore, UK, and Uruguay

 

 

 

 

 

 

+102-10, 102-45, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56

GRI Annexures | 337
The data measurement techniques used, and the
basis of calculations and estimates have been
mentioned in the relevant areas of this report. TCS
does not believe there is any substantial divergence
from the GRI Indicator Protocols. The scope,
boundaries, and methodology for data analysis in
this document remain the same as in the prior year.
There has been no restatement of information or
changes in the material topics or boundaries since
the prior year. The data is sourced from Ultimatix,
TCS’ core enterprise platform. Other supporting
data is reviewed by relevant third-party assurers as
part of ISO and financial audit.

Assurance

Ernst & Young has assured the data presented
under GRI Standards disclosures as specified in
their Assurance Statement. The scope and basis of
assurance have been described in their assurance
letter. The Board was not involved in seeking this
assurance.

Contact?

Corporate Headquarters: TCS House, Raveline
Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001, Maharashtra, India.
Website: wwwtcs.com

Please email any feedback / queries:

Sustainability / ESG topics:
corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

Any other topic: investor.relations@tcs.com
Stakeholder Engagement Framework

TCS strives to create value for all stakeholders and
aspires to understand and act upon material matters
for its business, stakeholders, and society. TCS’
strategy is based on its stakeholder engagement
program and a materiality assessment. TCS engages
with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, to deepen
its insights into their needs and expectations, and to
develop sustainable strategies for the short, medium,
and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps
to manage risks and opportunities in business
operations.

The key stakeholders identified in consultation

with the company’s management are: customers,
employees, shareholders, academic institutions,
head-hunters, staffing firms, other suppliers, partners
and collaborators, industry bodies such as NASSCOM
and CIF, governments, NGOs, local communities,
regulators and society at large’.

Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages
with — such as industry analysts, equity analysts,
and the news media —are proxies for other named
stakeholders — Le. customers, shareholders, and
society at large, respectively.

Stakeholder interactions might be structured (e.g.
surveys, account statements) or unstructured

(town halls, 1x1 meetings). Based on mutual
convenience and need, the engagement maybe
scheduled as needed, or pre-scheduled on a periodic
basis (fortnightly/ monthly/ quarterly/ annual) or
continuous (e.g. website, social media)}°.

The below table shows an overview of TCS’
stakeholder group and how the company engages
with them:

 

2102-3, 102-53

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

5102-13
“102-40, 102-42

= 102-43

GRI Annexures | 338
@

2 | customers

C=

How TCS engages?

® As needed: Project-related calls and meetings: project management reviews;
relationship meetings and reviews; executive meetings and briefings; customer visits:
responses to RFls/RFPs: sponsored events; mailers; newsletters; brochures

® Continuous: TCS website; social media (LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube)
® Half-yearly: Customer satisfaction surveys

® Annual: Customer summits; Innovation days; Executive customer surveys; Sponsored
Community events

Shareholders
How TCS engages?

® As needed: Press releases and press conferences; email advisories: facility visits;
in-person meetings; investor conferences; non-deal roadshows; conference calls

® Quarterly: Financial statements in Ind AS and IFRS; earnings call; exchange
notifications; press conferences

® Continuous: Investors page on the TCS website

® Annual: Annual General Meeting; Annual Report

Head-hunters; staffing firms; other suppliers
How TCS engages?

® One-time: RFls/RFPs; empanelment process

 

® As needed: Transactional meetings: periodic reviews; surveys

Industry bodies, Regulators

How TCS engages?

® As needed (need basis / usually 1-2 meetings in 3 months’ basis):
© Conferences and seminars, © surveys,

© working committee meetings, © other meetings

® Annual: Conferences; summits

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Ba

 

VY

 

Employees
How TCS engages?

® As needed: Touun halls; roadshows; project or operations reviews; video conferences;
audio conference calls; one-on-one counselling

® Monthly: @TCS {in-house magazine)

® Continuous: TCS website; Ultimatix Notice Board; CEO Connect; CTO Blog:
Corporate Corner: Knome: dipstick surveys: grievance redressal system

® Annual: PULSE (employee feedback survey); long-service awards; sales meets;
Blitz (business planning meet)

Academic Institutions

How TCS engages?

® As needed: Academic Interface Program; Co-Innovation Network (COIN™) meetings
® Continuous: TCS website; academic portal

® Annual: Sangam (high-level academic conference}; campus recruitment

Partners and Collaborators

How TCS engages?

® As needed: Meetings/calls; COIN™ meetings: visits; partner events
® Monthly: Conference calls

® Quarterly: Business reviews

® Annual: Partner events

Governments; NGOs; local communities; society at large
How TCS engages?

© As needed: Governance RFIs/RFPs; presentations; project meetings; reviews: calls
and meetings; surveys; consultative sessions; field visits; due diligence; calls and meetings:
conferences and seminars: surveys; press releases; press conferences; media interviews
and quotes; sponsored events

® Continuous: TCS website

GRI Annexures | 339
Identification of Material Topics

TCS conducts annual materiality assessments to update the list of material topics. The key elements of that assessment include:

 

ENGAGEMENT
WITH STAKEHOLDERS

Stakeholder interactions result in the
identification of a broad funnel of issues
important to each of the constituencies.
The Company’s Sustainability Council uses
discussions with internal and external
stakeholders, as well as its own judgment,
to prioritize and arrive at a list of material
topics with significant economic,
environmental, or social impacts on TCS’
business, reputation, and operations.

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

KEY ELEMENTS
OF ANNUAL

MATERIALITY
ASSESSMENTS

 

 

>’
SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT
AND VALUE CHAIN

The company looks at the role of TCS in
wider sustainability issues, the impact the
company has through its customer
engagements and its operations, and the
role that the company experts play in
professional associations, industry forums
and other thought leadership activities to
address important issues raised by
stakeholders.

 

GRI Annexures | 340
Key Material Topics®, Key Concerns’, Boundary of impact® and TCS approach to them are listed below:

Fa aM S la e)}

 

Ge

Corporate Governance

Key Concerns

TCS Approach

(Page Reference Number)

Boundary of
Tan r-tei

GRI
Indicators

 

 

Strong corporate governance that
considers - stakeholder concerns,
engenders trust, oversees business
strategies, and ensures fiscal
accountability, ethical corporate
behavior, and fairness to all stakeholders
is core to achieving the organization’s
longer-term mission.

 

 

 

 

® Governance Structure and composition e Pg72

@ Independence of the Board and ePg73
Minority Interest

@ Avoidance of conflict of interest ePg73

® Board oversight ePg73

 

Disclosure and Transparency

Pg 73; Disclosures — Pg 87-89

Internal financial control systems and
their adequacy - Pg 140

 

 

 

 

 

@ Value, ethics and compliance ePg73
@ Enterprise Risk Management e@ Pg 131
@ Succession Planning e Pg 74
@ Remuneration Policy ® Pg 82

 

° 102-47
7 102-44

® 102-46, 102-47: Boundary of Impact: Internal includes all TCS offices and campuses, 103-1

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

 

Internal

 

102-18
102-16

GRI Annexures | 341
Fa aM S la e)}

 

KY,
&9 Business Sustainability

Key Concerns

GRI
Indicators

TCS Approach Boundary of

Tan r-tei

(Page Reference Number)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A financially strong, viable business that @ Economic performance @ Performance Overview — Pg 127 Internal 201-1
is able to adapt to changing technology ow .
landscapes to remain relevant to @ Demand sustainability @ Strategy for sustainable growth — Pg 103
customers and profitably grow its e TCS Strategy — Pg 106
revenues year-on-year is essential .
to meet longer term expectations of e Business outlook — Pg 131
stakeholders. @ Investments in capability development @ Enabling investments — Pg 104
@ Intellectual Capital - Pg 115
@) Talent Management
The company’s ability to attract, develop, | @ Talent acquisition e Pg 109 Internal 401-3
motivate, and retain talent is critical to 402-1
business success. @ Talent development e Pg 110 -
@ Diversity and Equal opportunity e Pg 112 403-4
@ Talent retention e Pg 112 404-1
405-2
@ Employee engagement e Pg 110
® Occupational Health and safety e Pg 113

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 342
Fa aM S la e)}

 

© Social Responsibility

The business must be rooted in
community and be aligned with the
community's larger interests. Any
adversarial relationship can hurt the
company’s ability to create longer term
value,

@ Environmental Footprint

Business sustainability ts linked to the
planet’s sustainability. Moreover, good
environmental practices result in greater
operational efficiency, adding to financial
sustainability.

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

 

Key Concerns

Local communities

Education and skill development

Job creation

Taxes payable in different regions

Health and wellness

Environmental stewardship

Energy consumption
GHG emissions
Water management

Effluents and waste

 

TCS Approach

(Page Reference Number)

Social Capital - Pg 145

Education — Pg 146

Skill Development — Pg 148
Employment and employability — Pg 149

TCS standalone income taxes —
Pg 311-315

Country-wise subsidiary income taxes —
Pg 324-327

Occupational Health and Safety — Pg 113
Natural Capital — Pg 169

The path to energy efficiency — Pg 171
Managing the carbon footprint — Pg 170
Water conservation — Pg 172

Waste reduction and reuse — Pg 173

 

Boundary of
Tan r-tei

External

Internal

 

GRI
Indicators

 

413-1

302-1
303-3
305-1
306-1

GRI Annexures | 343
GRI Content Index?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission

GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (GRI 101 doesn't include any disclosures)

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016

Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 3
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 99
102-3 Location of headquarters 338
102-4 Location of operations 99
102-5 Ownership and legal form 3
102-6 Markets served 99
102-7 Scale of the organization 3
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 108
102-9 Supply Chain 109
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 337
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 170
102-12 External initiatives 103
102-13 Membership of associations 338

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

? 102-55

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 344
Strategy

Ethics and Integrity

Governance

Stakeholder Engagement

Reporting Practice

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

102-14 Statement from senior decision maker

102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
102-18 Governance structure

102-40 List of stakeholder groups

102-41 Collective bargaining agreements

102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders

102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement

102-44 Key topics and concerns raised

102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements

102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries

102-47 List of material topics

102-48 Restatements of information

 

GRI Annexures | 345
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission
102-49 Changes in reporting 337
102-50 Reporting period 337
102-51 Date of most recent report 337
102-52 Reporting cycle 337
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 338
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 337
102-55 GRI content index 344
102-56 External assurance 337

Material Topics - Economic

GRI 201 — Economic Performance

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 102
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 127

GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 15

2016

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 346
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission

Material Topics - Environment

GRI 302: Energy

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 171
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 171

GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 170

GRI 303: Water

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 172
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 172

GRI 303: Water 2018 303-3 Water withdrawal by source 172

GRI 305: Emissions

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 170
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170

GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions 171

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 347
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission

GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 172
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 172

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 172

Material Topics - Social

GRI 401: Employment

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 107
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107

GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental Leave 111

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 107
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107

GRI 402: Labor Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 111

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 348
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 113
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 113

GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 113

Safety 2018 health and safety

GRI 404: Training and Education

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 110
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 | 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 110

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 112
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 111

Opportunity 2016

 

 

 

 

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

GRI Annexures | 349
GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRI 413: Local Communities

GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries 341

2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 145
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 145

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 146
development programs

 

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 GRI Annexures | 350
— Ernst Yona associates Ue
Sth Foor le

EY Non iowa Park
bi festen Eres Ha

Goregaon (E), Mumbai ~ 400063, naa
Building a better
‘working world

Tok +91 22 6192 0000
Fax: +91 22 6192 3000

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT

The Board of Directors and Management
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Mumbai, India

Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY) was engaged by Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the ‘Company’)
to provide independent assurance on its Integrated Report (the ‘Report') for the Financial Year 2020-
21

The sustainability data reported in the Report is based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability
Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI Standards’) and its subsequent updates in 2018 and 2020; its content
and presentation is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. EY's responsibilty, as
agreed with the management of the Company, is to provide independent assurance on the report
content as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance seth ties
is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with
the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any
other person or organization. Any dependence that any such third party may place on the Report is
entirely at its own risk. The assurance report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the
Company's overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below.

 

Scope of assurance
The scope of assurance covers the following aspects of the Report:

» Data and information related to the Company's sustainability performance pertaining to the GRI
Standards listed below, for the period 1: April 2020 to 31 March 2021;
> The Company's internal protocols, processes, and controls related to the collection and collation of
specified sustainability performance data;
> Remote Verification of data and related information through consultations at the Company's Head
Office in Mumbai as wall as desk reviews of the following locations:
a) Synergy Park, Hyderabad
b) Gitanjafi Park, Kolkata
c) TCS Centre, Kochi
> Review of data ona sample basis, at the above-mentioned locations, pertaining to the following

disclosures of the GRI Standards:
a) Environmental Topics: Energy (302-1), Water (303-3, 303-5), Emissions (305-1 to 305-5),
Waste (306-1, 306-2), and paper consumption (non-GRN;

b) Social Topics: Information on employees (102-8), Occupational Health & Safety (403-4),
Training and Education (404-1), Diversity and Equal Opportunity (405-1), Local
Communities (413-1).

Limitations of our review
The assurance scope excludes:

» Operations of the Company other than those mentioned in the ‘Scope of Assurance’;

» Aspects of the Report and data/information other than those mentioned above;

» Data and information outside the defined reporting period 2. 15 April 2020 to 31st March 2021;

» The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim
or future intention provided by the Company;

» Review of the Company's compliance with regulations, acts, guidelines with respect to various
regulatory agencies and other legal matters;

» Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company

» Review of qualitative statements and case studies in various sections of the Report,

Page Lot 2

Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

Assurance criteria
The assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with the International Federation
of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information (SAE 3000). Our evidence-gathering procedures were designed to
obtain a ‘Limited’ level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on reporting principles, as well as
conformance of sustainability performance disclosures as per GRI Standards.

What we did to form our conclusions
In order to form our conclusions, we undertook the following key steps:

> Interviews with select key personnel and the core team responsible for the preparation of the Report
to understand the Company's sustainability vision, mechanism for management of sustainability
issues and engagement with key stakeholders;

Interactions with the key personnel at the Company's locations of operations to understand and
review the current processes in place for capturing sustainability performance data;

Data assurance through desk reviews covering the Company's corporate office and other
operational locations as mentioned in the ‘Scope of Assurance’ above;

Review of relevant documents and systems for gathering, analyzing and aggregating sustainability
performance data in the reporting period.

v

v

v

Our observations
The Company has demonstrated its commitment to sustainable development by reporting its
performance on various material topics for FY 2020-21. The Company has prepared Report having
sustainability data in accordance with GRI standards (Core). The Report includes a description of the
Company's stakeholder engagement process, materiality assessment and relevant performance
disclosures on the identified material topics.

Our conclusion
On the basis of our review scope and methodology, nothing has come to our attention that causes us
not to believe that the data has been presented fairly, in material respects, in keeping with the GRI
Standards and the Company's reporting principles and criteria,

Our assurance team and independence
Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, has been drawn from our climate
change and sustainability network and undertakes similar engagements with a number of significant
Indian and international businesses. As an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the
independence requirements set out in International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics
for Professional Accountants‘. EY's independence policies and procedures ensure compliance with the
Code.

  

for Ernst & Youyg Associages LLP,

Mumbai

' International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. This Cade establishes ethical
requirements for professional accountants.
Page 2 of 2

GRI Annexures

351
TATA
fee Ua lag
RSC ila)

TCS Safe Harbor Clause

Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results
to differ materially from market expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our
ability to manage growth, intense competition among global IT services companies, various factors which may
affect our profitability, such as wage increases or an appreciating Rupee, our ability to attract and retain highly
skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration,
restrictions on cross-border movement of skilled personnel, our ability to manage our international operations,
reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability
to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts,
the success of the companies in which TCS has made strategic investments, withdrawal of governmental
fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India,
unauthorized use of our intellectual property, pandemics, natural disasters and general economic conditions
affecting our industry. TCS may, from time to time, make additional written and oral forward-looking statements,
including our reports to shareholders. These forward-looking statements represent only the Company's
current intentions, beliefs or expectations, and any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on
which it was made. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.

IT Services
Business Solutions
Consulting

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
Na aneneolL a

 
